The Legend of Ochi Hesitates, but Charms
By Nolan Shaffer / April 28, 2025
Head Arts Editor Nolan Shaffer reviews A24’s latest film.

The Arts Podcast, E6: What We’re Listening To Recently
By Elizabeth Eck, Tiffany Li, and Nolan Shaffer / April 25, 2025
For this episode, each of your favorite arts podcast hosts picked three songs that they have been listening to recently, and played it for everyone. There was some fierce debate over who has the better...

The film poster of Sinners, courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures.
An Unhinged Upheaval
By Shawn Quek / April 22, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek experiences Sinners by Ryan Coogler, a beautifully unhinged period drama crossed with supernatural horror that includes gospel blues, vampire killers, and fighting the KKK.
The Salomon and Benhamou families gather for a Passover seder in Joshua Harmon’s Prayer for the French Republic. Courtesy of Michael Brosilow.
Prayer for the French Republic Is Dark in Mood but Warm in Tone
By Zachary Leiter / April 21, 2025
Prayer for the French Republic is, in its quiet insistence on work and secular hope, as much reminiscent of Chekov’s Uncle Vanya as it is of Stoppard’s Leopoldstadt.
Gene (Thomas Gibson) lectures the titular Henry Johnson (Daniil Krimer) about gender, wisdom, and justice.
 
Image courtesy of Michael Brosilow
David Mamet’s Henry Johnson Misses the Mark
By Zachary Leiter / April 18, 2025
“Mamet is, throughout Henry Johnson, precise and unsparing in his criticism of society’s quiet acquiescence to sin, though he could stand at times to be more overt in the rendering of his judgment,” Senior Arts Reporter Zachary Leiter writes.
The film poster for Warfare, courtesy of A24.
To Forgo Truffaut
By Shawn Quek / April 16, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek reviews Warfare by Alex Garland and Ray Mendoza, a gripping combat exercise in hyperrealism that will leave the audience shell-shocked.
Left to right: Grant Mullen, Henry LaVallee, and Gianni Aiello.
The Dive Bar of Eternal Youth: Naked Giants at the Empty Bottle
By Shawn Quek / April 13, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek reviews Naked Giants, a trio that delivered a charming, genre-defying combination of angsty energy and mature clarity at the Empty Bottle.
Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk Monument, Albin Polásek, 1949.
Photo Essay: Sculptures of Hyde Park
By Graham Hansen / April 7, 2025
Maroon photographer Graham Hansen takes a walk around Hyde Park, cataloging the sculptures that call the neighborhood home.
The film poster of A Minecraft Movie, courtesy of Warner Bros. Pictures.
Does Could Imply Should?
By Shawn Quek / April 6, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek reviews A Minecraft Movie by Jared Hess, an unfortunate adaptation of a beloved video game.

The Arts Podcast, E5: Looking Back At the Grammys
By Nolan Shaffer, Tiffany Li, and Elizabeth Eck / April 3, 2025
It’s episode five of the Arts podcast! Your hosts are back with an episode on the Grammy awards! Who deserved it? Who didn’t? Find out with Elizabeth, Nolan, and Tiffany as they discuss, disagree,...

The film poster of Death of a Unicorn, courtesy of A24.
The Wealth of Unicorns
By Shawn Quek / March 30, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek reviews Alex Scharfman's Death of a Unicorn, an A24 satirical horror film that balances gags and gore.
Action shot of the duo performing during the concert, courtesy of University Theater.
University Theater’s “If/Then”: Eventually, Everything Is Going to Be Okay
By Ibrahim Shaheen / March 26, 2025
Arts Reporter Ibrahim Shaheen reviews “If/Then” from University Theater, a musical with a unique approach to exploring decisions in modern society.
The Jeremiah Review at Logan Cafe
“Warm and Hot”: The Jeremiah Review’s Logan Concert
By Kyle Lin / March 26, 2025
Arts Reporter Kyle Lin attends The Jeremiah Review’s Logan concert, a testament to South Side jazz.
The film poster of Opus, courtesy of A24.
Seduction by Contradiction
By Shawn Quek / March 14, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek indulges in Opus by Mark Anthony Green, the latest cutting thriller from A24 that seduces an audience through hypnotic satirical critique.
Bad Suns's front-man, Christo Bowman, performs shirtless for the crowd.
Seasoned Angst and Stellar Sounds
By Adrian Dai / March 7, 2025
Arts Reporter Adrian Dai writes about veteran rock band Bad Suns’s infectious performance at The Salt Shed.
Romesh Ranganathan, courtesy of Off The Kerb Productions
A Cynical Approach to Life With Romesh Ranganathan
By Lara Orlandi / March 4, 2025
Through Ranganathan’s sharp self-reflections and commentary, the British comedian easily translates his humor to an American audience.
FINNEAS stuns the crowd.
A Paradox of Performance
By Shawn Quek / March 4, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek explores how alternative pop icon FINNEAS brings whispered confessions to a roaring crowd.
Two heads sprout from Lucy's body as a team of physicians hold her down.
Blood, Death, and Sex: Plexus Polaire’s Dracula: Lucy’s Dream
By Toby Chan / February 17, 2025
Head Arts Editor Toby Chan attends Plexus Polaire’s Dracula at the Chicago International Puppet Theater Festival.
Blair Thomas poses with a wooden puppet.
In Conversation with Blair Thomas, Puppeteer
By Toby Chan / February 17, 2025
Head Arts Editor Toby Chan sits down with Blair Thomas, Founder and Artistic Director of the International Puppet Theater Festival.
Dirt Red Brass Band performs at DKE fraternity house. 
Dirt Red: Dancing at DKE
By Kennedy Greenfelder / February 17, 2025
DKE hosts Dirt Red Brass Band for a live performance.
Dawson Daugherty, almost monday’s frontman, woos the crowd.
Aesthetics of a Sunburnt Sound
By Shawn Quek / February 16, 2025
Associate Arts Editor Shawn Quek writes about how alt-pop band almost monday brings Californian sunshine to the Chicago winter.
The Cast of The North American Tour of SHUCKED (Photo by Matthew Murphy and Evan Zimmerman)
Corny Corn: That’s the Kernel of “Shucked”
By João Pedro do Prado Sanches / February 9, 2025
João Sanches reviews "Shucked," a Broadway musical that turns “corny” into a compliment.
Teachers and students at last year's spring recital. (Courtesy of the South Side Free Music Program)
Local Kids Call the Tune in Student-Run After-School Music Program
By Celeste Alcalay / February 2, 2025
Founded by a UChicago undergraduate student over a decade ago, the South Side Free Music Program encourages neighborhood children to express their creativity.
Kate Nash in a tender moment. 
Kate Nash: An Elvish Princess with Grit
By Evy Wyman / January 30, 2025
In Chicago, Kate Nash has perfected her craft and touches her fan’s hearts.
Chairs outside Max Palevsky Cinema.
Hardcore: A Film Review
By Navya Banga / January 30, 2025
Arts Reporter Navya Banga reviews “Hardcore” at Doc Films.
A band playing at the previous folk festival in 2024.
Once Again, The Folk Festival Returns
By Noah Glasgow / January 29, 2025
The “zeitgeist of 100 years ago” returns to Mandel Hall for its 65th year next month.
Professor Agnes Callard
The Philosophy of Clothing With Agnes Callard
By Shawn Quek / January 22, 2025
Arts Reporter Shawn Quek sits down with professor Agnes Callard about the philosophy of fashion.
Spells, Crystals, and a Bridge From Reality: vanessa german’s Fellowship Exhibition
Spells, Crystals, and a Bridge From Reality: vanessa german’s Fellowship Exhibition
By Lara Orlandi / January 13, 2025
Lara Orlandi explores collaborative magic at vanessa german’s fellowship exhibition.
Source: Under the Rug Press Release
Swept Under the Rug: Newest Album Shines on Stage, Falters in Studio
By Adera Craig / January 13, 2025
Arts Reporter Adera Craig covers Under the Rug’s 2024 tour and intimate VIP experience at Beat Kitchen.
(L-R) Rachel Zegler, Fred Durst, Lachlan Watson, Jaeden Martell
Blood, Robots, and Nostalgia: A Conversation with Director Kyle Mooney on A24’s ‘Y2K’
By Miki Mukawa / December 23, 2024
Head Arts Editor Miki Mukawa reviews A24’s ‘Y2K’ and interviews director Kyle Mooney.

The Arts Podcast, E4: What’s under Chromakopia’s mask?
By Elizabeth Eck, Tiffany Li, and Nolan Shaffer / December 6, 2024
It’s episode four of the Arts podcast!
Maggie Rogers Isn’t Just Coffee Shop Indie
Maggie Rogers Isn’t Just Coffee Shop Indie
By Lainey Gregory and Sofia Hrycyszyn / November 21, 2024
Rogers’s “Don’t Forget Me” tour emphasized her drive to leave an impact on the community through her music and her fear of getting lost to history.
Alice Phoebe Lou plays the Salt Shed. 
Alice Phoebe Lou Invites Us to Her Garden
By Harmonie Ramsden / November 19, 2024
Alice Phoebe Lou, an image of whimsy in a sea of subtlety, charmed as the opening act for Clairo on October 16 at the Salt Shed.
Kishi Bashi performs at Offset. Photo by Georgia Wluka. 
Kishi Bashi Wants You to Celebrate With Him
By Evy Wyman / November 18, 2024
Evy Wyman covers Kishi Bashi’s “joyous and golden” performance at Chicago’s new venue Offset.
Kassie Rivera (far left) asserts authorship of a fan fiction by reciting it from memory and claims a coveted summer internship from her frat brothers Anthony Stefani (second from right) and Simon Lenoe (second from left).
Theater[24] Is Coming Soon to a Theater Near You
By Lucy Whitehead / November 4, 2024
Theater[24] offers a fun smattering of new plays all written and produced in one chaotic day.
Escaping to another world with Sarah Kinsley
Escaping to another world with Sarah Kinsley
By Miki Mukawa / November 4, 2024
Sarah Kinsley’s debut album Escaper has received rave reviews from critics and longtime fans alike. Watching her as she twirled and romped across the stage, it was easy to understand why.

The Arts Podcast, E3: The Future of Pop
By Elizabeth Eck, Tiffany Li, and Nolan Shaffer / October 30, 2024
We’re back with episode three of the Arts podcast!
Sigur Rós and the Wordless Music Orchestra play Auditorium Theatre on September 21, 2024. Credit Harmonie Ramsden. 
Sigur Rós: A Love Letter to the Ensemble
By Harmonie Ramsden / October 21, 2024
Senior Arts Writer Harmonie Ramsden spends an evening with Sigur Rós at Chicago’s Auditorium Theatre.

The Arts Podcast, E2: BRAT Summer
By Tiffany Li and Elizabeth Eck / October 14, 2024
Tune in to hear the second episode of the Arts podcast!
Buckshot and XL Dancer (left and right) face off as tensions rise with nowhere to go. Courtesy of Michael Brosilow with Court Theatre.
Beauty and Horror in “East Texas Hot Links” at the Court
By Nolan Shaffer / October 14, 2024
There is a mosaic of experience in the Court Theatre’s first play of the 2024-25 season, writes associate Arts editor Nolan Shaffer.
Sturgill Simpson plays the Salt Shed.
Sit Down. Sturgill Simpson Has Things That You Need to Hear.
By Noah Glasgow / October 14, 2024
In a stop at the Salt Shed, country singer Sturgill Simpson sealed the end of his old outlaw style. But in Simpson’s own words: “Sometimes beginnings can come from an end.”
From left to right, Carlos Garcia (guitar), Jasmine Rodgers (vocals, guitar), Alex Patterson (violin), Harry Smith (multi-instrumentalist), Alex Caird (bass, guitar), perform the song “Drinking” from Twilight.
A “Strange Few”: bôa at Thalia Hall
By Anika Krishnaswamy / October 10, 2024
British alt-rock band bôa stuns at Thalia Hall.
The grounds of the Evanston Folk Festival. Photograph by Josh Druding courtesy SPACE.
First Evanston Folk Festival Appreciates the Old and Attracts the New
By Lena Birkholz / October 10, 2024
At the new Evanston Folk Festival, honest love for folk traditions peeks out from underneath an Instagrammable veneer.
Ride plays Metro
Ride’s 2024 Tour Is Nostalgic Fun
By Harmonie Ramsden / October 2, 2024
The pioneering English rock band’s May 16 concert at Metro Chicago was worth raising a pint to.
Eddie Izzard performs "Hamlet" at the Chicago Shakespeare Company. Courtesy the Chicago Shakespeare Company. 
Eddie Izzard Presents a Suffocating yet Prescient Take on Shakespeare’s “Hamlet”
By Francesco Rahe / October 2, 2024
Arts Reporter Francesco Rahe covers Eddie Izzard’s single-handed rendition of Hamlet at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater.
The cast of "Alice By Heart" at the show's midwestern premiere. Photo by Evan Hanover courtesy Kokandy Productions.
Falling Down the Rabbit Hole with Kokandy’s New Musical, “Alice by Heart”
By Miki Mukawa / October 2, 2024
Associate Arts Editor Miki Mukawa spends another evening at Chopin Theatre—this time, in Wonderland.
"I Saw the TV Glow" was released by A24 in May and is now available in VOD. Courtesy A24.
“I Saw the TV Glow”: When Reality and Fiction Collide
By Cristina Rodriguez / October 2, 2024
Jane Schoenbrun's latest film reimagines what the psychological horror genre can offer to Gen Z.
The Booth School of Business, home to the Polsky Center.
The Arts Staff’s Ten Can’t-Miss Arts and Culture Spots Across Chicago
By Maroon Arts / September 23, 2024
So you’ve seen the Symphony, the Art Institute, and the Bean. Here’s what’s next.
Hutchinson Commons (lovingly referred to as “Hutch”) is housed within The Reynolds Club. Courtesy of Hailey Sobel.
Crowning the Best Restaurant at Hutch
By Lainey Gregory / September 23, 2024
Arts Editor Lainey Gregory settles the debate: What’s the best restaurant at Hutchinson Commons?
Onlookers cheer at Summer Breeze. Courtesy of Toby Chan.
Summer Breeze Heated Up Reynolds Quad
By Harmonie Ramsden / September 23, 2024
This year’s Summer Breeze featured wistful Indigo De Souza, bubbly COIN, and electric NLE Choppa.
John Flansburgh (left) and John Linnell (right) perform "Doctor Worm."
A Birdhouse for Your Soul: They Might Be Giants
By Toby Chan and Michael Moran / July 20, 2024
Associate Arts Editor Toby Chan and Arts Reporter Michael Moran cover They Might Be Giants’ performance at the Vic Theater as part of their “Big Tour of the Midwest.”

The Arts Podcast, E1: Taylor Swift and Her Tortured Poets
By Elizabeth Eck, Nolan Shaffer, and Tiffany Li / June 8, 2024
Arts is starting a new podcast! On Episode 1 of the Arts Podcast, Elizabeth, Nolan, and Tiffany discuss Taylor Swift’s latest album, The Tortured Poets Department.
Henchmen Astoria (Maisie Thompson) and Hilton (Jacob Halabe) join hands with oil baron Dallas (Robert Stimpson). Credit Coco Liu and University Theater.
Strings Attached: Puppet Love
By Toby Chan and Nolan Shaffer / May 23, 2024
Associate arts editors Toby Chan and Nolan Shaffer review “Strings Attached,” an original musical written, directed, and composed by fourth-years Jefferson Lind, Adrian Lo, and Althea Li and third-year Eleni Lefakis.
Works from Marcela Torres’s new exhibit “I Brought You Flowers/Te Traje Flores” at the University of Chicago Arts Incubator.
Celebrating Botanical Heritage at “I Brought You Flowers/Te Traje Flores”
By Katherine Chen / May 15, 2024
Arts reporter Katherine Chen reviews Marcela Torres’s new exhibit “I Brought You Flowers/Te Traje Flores” at the University of Chicago Arts Incubator.
Catherine (Dana Muelchi) clutches the contentious proof centered in act 2 as her sister Claire (Taila Langman) looks on.
“Proof” Review: A Triumph of Humanity, Genius or Not
By Nolan Shaffer / April 29, 2024
Brimming with urgency and intimacy, Bluebird Arts’ “Proof” illustrates how imperfect and beautiful our minds can be.
ARACHNIDAE at the Logan Center.
ARACHNIDAE: A Celebration of Eight Graduating Visual Arts Students
By Tiffany Li / April 24, 2024
This year’s visual arts B.A. thesis exhibition is a curiously woven patchwork of materials, moods, and moments.
Rural Alberta Advantage plays Lincoln Hall.
The Rural Alberta Advantage, Loud and Proud
By Harmonie Ramsden / April 22, 2024
The Rural Alberta Advantage’s Lincoln Hall performance brought vivacity and warmth to a frigid Chicago night.
Japanese artworks on display at "Meiji Modern" at the Smart Museum. Credit: Gail Gomez.
Artistic Transformations in “Meiji Modern” at the Smart Museum
By Katherine Chen / April 10, 2024
Arts reporter Katherine Chen discusses the artistic perspective of the Meiji period, on display in the Smart Museum’s spring exhibition.
The Paper Kites gather to harmonize at Thalia Hall.
Stopping by The Paper Kites’s Roadhouse
By Harmonie Ramsden / April 3, 2024
The Paper Kites dazzled audiences at Thalia Hall on their “At the Roadhouse” tour.
Rodrigo’s performance was both intimate and larger-than-life, in many ways reflecting her journey of being propelled into stardom.
Olivia Rodrigo Spills Her GUTS
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / April 3, 2024
Senior arts reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn catches a landmark moment for young superstar Olivia Rodrigo on her GUTS World Tour.
Ariana Burks and Ariel Williams in Gabrielle Randle-Bent’s production of Sophocles’s "Antigone." Image courtesy of Court Theatre. 
Sisterhood and Feminism in Court Theater’s “Antigone”
By Trinity Bledsoe / April 3, 2024
Arts Reporter Trin Bledsoe dives deep into the Court Theatre’s recent reimagining of Sophocles’s classic Greek tragedy “Antigone.”
From left to right: Hannah Eisendrath, Madelyn Strasma, Isabel Roden, Luz Espinoza in PrideArts "Shakespeare's R&J." Photo by Marisa Klug-Morataya. 
PrideArts Stages “Shakespeare’s R&J”
By Feifei Mei / April 3, 2024
An electrifying all-female cast reignites the passion and ardor of a love story as old as time.
Everyone at Schubas wants to know Molly Grace, performing on her Lovesick Tour.
Everyone Wants to Know Molly!
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / April 1, 2024
Senior Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn covers Molly Grace on her Lovesick Tour.
Ricky Montgomery mimes playing the guitar at his Vic performance.
Ricky Montgomery, A One-Man Performance
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / April 1, 2024
Senior Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn catches a rising indie-pop star Montgomery at Vic Theatre.
Country singer-songwriter Dylan LeBlanc. Credit: Abraham Rowe.
Talking Alchemy, Southern Gothicism, and Coyotes with Dylan LeBlanc
By Harmonie Ramsden / April 1, 2024
Senior Arts Writer Harmonie Ramsden sits down with Dylan LeBlanc to discuss his touring record "Coyote", his inspirations, and his plans for the future.
Thomas Murphy Molony and Dana Delany in the Goodman Theatre’s “Highway Patrol.” Credit: Goodman Theatre. Credit: Goodman Theatre.
“Highway Patrol”: A Theatrical Portrait of Celebrity and Deception
By Katherine Chen / March 27, 2024
Arts reporter Katherine Chen reviews the Goodman Theatre’s production of “Highway Patrol.”
Third-years Will Tom and JD Allen at "Klubnacht Presents: LUVNACHT."
All Tomorrow’s Parties
By Nick Rommel / March 27, 2024
Illusion and Disillusion at “Klubnacht Presents: LUVNACHT.”
Julio Torres in "Problemista." Credit: A24.
A New American Dream in Julio Torres’s “Problemista”
By Toby Chan / March 24, 2024
Associate Arts Editor Toby Chan reviews A24’s newest release, “Problemista.”
Benoît Magimel and Juliette Binoche in Trần Anh Hùng’s "The Taste of Things." Courtesy of Carole Bethuel. 
“The Taste of Things”: A Taste to Savor
By Jin Oishi / March 24, 2024
"The Taste of Things" is an irresistibly poetic and subtly profound love letter to good cooking and companionship.
Jack Pflieger and Elisa Gao in Univerity Theater's recent production of Richard III. Photo credit: University Theater. 
In “Richard III”, Man, Machine, Humor, and Tyranny
By Nolan Shaffer / March 20, 2024
A twisted automaton takes center-stage in Nora Schultz and Honor Torrance’s recent University Theatre production.
The “Bibliosaurus!” exhibit at the Joseph Regenstein Library. 
Dinosaurs Through the Ages at the “Bibliosaurus!” Exhibition
By Katherine Chen / February 29, 2024
From Dickens to Godzilla to the Flintstones, dinosaurs have long occupied a central place in popular culture. Arts reporter Katherine Chen reviews a new exhibit at the Regenstein Library surveying their reptilian history.
G. Love and Special Sauce perform on their 30th Anniversary tour.
G. Love: Lost in the Special Sauce
By Sofia Hrycyszyn and Adera Craig / February 29, 2024
Arts Reporters Sofia Hrycyszyn and Adera Craig cover the hip-hop blues trio, G. Love and Special Sauce, on their 30th Anniversary tour.
Briston Maroney performs at Thalia Hall.
Briston Maroney: Remembering Our Inner Child
By Toby Chan / February 26, 2024
Associate Arts Editor Toby Chan covers Briston Maroney’s performance at Thalia Hall.
Madonna performs at the United Center.
Madonna Is as Mesmerizing as Ever
By Zachary Leiter / February 23, 2024
Head Arts Editor Zachary Leiter covers the pop star’s February Celebration Tour stop at the United Center.
Attendees at The Regulators' concert
The Regulators Perform for the Logan Center’s Jazz Series
By Celeste Alcalay / February 15, 2024
Arts Reporter Celeste Alcalay attends Logan Center’s Third Tuesday Jazz concert, featuring The Regulators.
Hull Gate from the Joseph Regenstein Library.” 
When Harry Met Sally Still Hooks Viewers After 35 Years
By Trin Bledsoe / February 8, 2024
Can men and women be friends? The burning question at the heart of "When Harry Met Sally" still smolders after 35 years.
Jasmine Amy Rogers stuns as Boop in the original musical “Boop!”
In Boop! The Musical, a Nostalgic Story Leaps to the Stage
By Belle Nahoom / February 8, 2024
Although its plot and songs could use direction, Boop! The Musical delivers visual delight and old-timey music for a nostalgic, family-friendly audience.
Installation view, Calling on the Past: Selections from the Collection, Smart Museum of Art, 2023–2024; Credit: Photo by Bob. Image courtesy the Smart Museum of Art.
Navigating Cross-Historical Dialogues in “Calling on the Past”
By Katherine Chen / February 5, 2024
Arts reporter Katherine Chen reviews the Smart Museum’s new exhibit, “Calling on the Past.”
Photo by Chicago International Puppet Festival. Bug and Aurelia in "The Immortal Jellyfish Girl."
Visions of Apocalypse in Wakka Wakka’s “The Immortal Jellyfish Girl”
By Toby Chan / February 5, 2024
Associate Arts Editor Toby Chan reviews “The Immortal Jellyfish Girl” at the Chicago International Puppet Theater Festival, which offers a compelling mythos about mankind’s future for a present where climate disasters and visions of catastrophe threaten our survival as a species.
Viola (Jaeda LaVonne) and Duke Orsino (Yao Dogbe) in Twelfth Night. Photo by Liz Lauren for the Chicago Shakespeare Company. 
The Chicago Shakespeare Theater’s “Twelfth Night” is a Musical Romp With A Lot of Heart
By Francesco P. Rahe / February 5, 2024
Overly wholesome plot resolutions can often feel treacly, but excellent set design and convincing performances succeeded in making this Twelfth Night genuinely heartwarming.
Emily (Juliet Hart, from left), Jim (Alex Benito Rodriguez), and John (PJ Powers) negotiate and compromise through a long night of editing on deadline.
“Lifespan of a Fact”: Something out of the Reg
By Miki Mukawa / January 29, 2024
“The University of Chicago is in the bones of this play,” Jeremy Kareken, alum and co-writer of The Lifespan of a Fact, says.
A pair of lovers, perhaps, walk past Saieh Hall.
Why Valentine’s Day is February 14th
By Katherine Chen / January 29, 2024
Katherine Chen tells a tale of academic balancing acts, historical whimsy, and the pursuit of love post–midterm madness.
side profile of red theater chairs
At Sold-out Screening, Married Professors Talk “May December”
By Elizabeth Eck / January 26, 2024
Laughter and love were up for discussion at a screening of "May December" co-hosted by Night Owls and Doc Films on Saturday, January 15.
Credit: University of Chicago Folklore Society. Scenes from last year’s annual folk festival, which returns to Mandel Hall next month. 
Preview: The University Folk Fest Returns to Mandel Hall
By Noah Glasgow / January 20, 2024
What festival organizer Nick Rommel calls a “64-year-old jubilee of song and dance and stories that come out of the sometimes decaying, sometimes beautifully aged woodwork of this nation” returns February 9 and 10.
Doja Cat performs on her Scarlet tour. 
Doja Cat Flaunts Her Devilish New Persona at the Scarlet Tour
By Lainey Gregory / January 15, 2024
Associate Arts Editor Lainey Gregory attends the final show of Doja Cat’s Scarlet Tour at the United Center.
A trading card from the Lovejoy show. 
Lovejoy, The Twisted New British Boy Band
By Aidan Jones and Sofia Hrycyszyn / January 15, 2024
Arts Reporters Aidan Jones and Sofia Hrycyszyn cover up-and-coming British boy band Lovejoy.
Members of Occam’s Razor perform at “Occamsween” on October 27.
Where Fun Goes to Thrive
By Harmonie Ramsden / January 11, 2024
The vibes of campus comedians’ groups are on par with the jokes they tell.
As a long line waited to get their copies of "Absolute Animal" signed after the discussion, the room exploded into chatter brimming with infectious enthusiasm for poetry. 
The Enduring Gift of Poetry: From Hardy to DeWoskin
By Jin Oishi / January 11, 2024
Cake and conversation at Rachel DeWoskin’s joyous book launch.
Laufey dazzled at her Chicago concert with starlight visuals.
Laufey’s Musical Journey Continues at Thalia Hall
By Belle Nahoom / January 11, 2024
A year after reviewing Laufey’s performance at Lincoln Hall, arts reporter Belle Nahoom is back with coverage of Laufey’s bigger, bolder performance at Thalia Hall.
Matt Quinn and Sam Cooper awash in neon color.
Embracing Mt. Joy
By Sofia Hrycyszyn and Jed Stewart / January 11, 2024
Arts Reporters Sofia Hrycyszyn and Jed Whalen-Stewart cover Mt. Joy’s takeover of The Salt Shed.
Andrew Bird and Alan Hampton at the Fourth Church.
Andrew Bird Soars at Fourth Presbyterian Church
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / January 11, 2024
Senior Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn covers Andrew Bird’s 14th annual Gezelligheid, his holiday performance at Fourth Presbyterian Church.
Sen Morimoto captivates the audience at his Chicago “Diagnosis” show.
Sen Morimoto’s “Diagnosis” Pushes Through the Static
By Harmonie Ramsden / December 27, 2023
Sen Morimoto’s “Diagnosis” tour challenges the status quo through technically impressive beats and magnetic dissonance.
Mason Via, Ketch Secor, and Willie Watson (from left to right) rocking their strings.
Your Favorite Old-time String Band: Old Crow Medicine Show
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / December 27, 2023
Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn finds herself surrounded by friendly folk fans at Old Crow Medicine Show’s Chicago performance.
From left to right: Derrick Davis as Larry, Judy McLane as Joanne, and Britney Coleman as Bobbie in the North American Tour of "Company."
“Company’s” Judy McLane Talks Physicality, Performance, and Sondheim
By Miki Mukawa / December 1, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Miki Mukawa sits down with Judy McLane to discuss the national tour of "Company."
Britney Coleman as Bobbie (center) and the North American Tour of "Company."
A “Company” for a New Age Comes to Chicago
By Miki Mukawa / November 29, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Miki Mukawa covers Broadway in Chicago’s performance of the iconic musical "Company."
In "The Lion in Winter," Henry (John Hoogenakker) and Eleanor (Rebecca Spense) negotiate while their youngest son and Henry’s mistress look on.
At the Court Theatre, “The Lion in Winter” is Compelling, but Unimaginative
By Nora Schultz / November 29, 2023
Arts Editor Nora Schultz reviews Court Theatre’s production of “The Lion in Winter.”
Riovaz performing “waiting alonE.”
Riovaz and Kanii: Young and Emo
By Toby Chan / November 29, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Toby Chan covers Riovaz and Kanii’s performance at the Subterranean.
Faye Webster loses herself in the music.
Mythical Magical Faye Webster
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / November 19, 2023
Senior Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn covers Faye Webster’s takeover of the Riviera.
Film stills from Johanna d'Arc of Mongolia. Courtesy Doc Films.
The Question of Exoticism in Johanna d’Arc of Mongolia
By Toby Chan / November 15, 2023
Senior Arts Reporter Toby Chan reviews “Johanna d’Arc of Mongolia” at Doc Films.
A maple latté enjoyed outside Plein Air. 
Fall-ing in Love With Campus Cafés
By Lainey Gregory / November 8, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Lainey Gregory ranks the best fall drinks from cafés around UChicago’s campus.
Barry Keoghan stars as Oliver and Archie Madekwe as Farleigh in Emerald Fennell's upcoming film Saltburn. Image courtesy MGM and Amazon Studios. 
Emerald Fennell’s Saltburn Is the Hottest Nightmare of the Year
By Cristina Rodriguez / November 8, 2023
Arts reporter Cristina Rodriguez talks to Emerald Fennell about her new film Saltburn.
Last Dinosaurs perform, guitars blazing, at Chicago’s House of Blues.
Stars Collide at Tourzilla with Last Dinosaurs and Vacations
By Emily Zhang / November 3, 2023
Arts reporter Emily Zhang covers the Last Dinosaurs concert with Vacations at Chicago's House of Blues.
SZA sits at the edge of a suspended platform at her United Center performance. 
SZA in the Sea
By Lainey Gregory and Sofia Hrycyszyn / November 1, 2023
Your favorite Arts Reporter duo, Lainey and Sofia, cover SZA’s underwater adventure at United Center.
Dala Nasser’s exhibition Adonis River, exploring rituals and ceremonial objects in mourning, is now on display at the Renaissance Society.
Dala Nasser Reimagines the Myth of Adonis
By Feifei Mei, Arts Reporter / November 1, 2023
Multimedia artist Nasser reinterprets mythology to recreate a world of grief and rituals.
Consider this your invitation to get into the Halloween mood: Snuggle up with a warm cup of hot cocoa, treat yourself to a pumpkin spice-flavored pastry, and immerse yourself into the world of spooky tunes.
Spooky Serenades: A Halloween Extravaganza
By Belle Nahoom / November 1, 2023
Dive into the spirit of Halloween with our curated playlist that sets the spooky mood just right!
Kuumba Lynx performing a dance routine.
Reimagining Washington Park: The Arts Lawn Grand Opening
By Anya Krishnan / October 31, 2023
A new performing and visual arts space is open to the community in Washington Park.
Students spend the night camping outside the Smart Museum to be first on line for the Art to Live with program.
Art to Live Without
By Anika Krishnaswamy / October 29, 2023
A regretful reporter reflects on missed opportunity during the Smart Museum’s Art to Live With event.
A close image of Ruth Duckworth's sculpture Clouds Over Lake Michigan. 
Finding Joy in the Unadorned at Life As A Unity
By Harmonie Ramsden / October 29, 2023
The Smart Museum showcases the visceral works of Ruth Duckworth, a pioneering Chicago sculptor, throughout the academic year.
Halloween decorations invade campus.  
Twenty-Eight Minimally Researched Halloween Movie Reviews
By Zachary Leiter / October 29, 2023
Want to sound smart about Halloween cinema? This article won’t help you.
Roan, wearing a sequined outfit, leans into the crowd with a smile, photographed from the front.
The Return of Chappell Roan
By Josie Barboriak and Sofia Hrycyszyn / October 25, 2023
Arts reporters Josie Barboriak and Sofia Hrycyszyn cover Chappell Roan’s sparkling Midwest Princess tour.
Hayley Kiyoko on stage during her performance.
Hayley Kiyoko: Queen of the Gay Community
By Sofia Hrycyszyn, Senior Arts Writer / October 18, 2023
Kiyoko meshed perfectly with the dancers’ choreography, subtly smirking and raising her eyebrows when one of the dancers fell to the floor and popped through her open legs.
Explosions in the Sky performs at Salt Shed
Explosions in the Sky Weaves Moments of Escape and of Beauty
By Sofia Hrycyszyn, Senior Arts Writer / October 18, 2023
Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn reviews EITS’s show at the Salt Shed as part of their “End Tour.”
Beyoncé performs on the Renaissance World Tour.
Having a Ball with Beyoncé
By Lainey Gregory, Deputy Arts Editor / October 11, 2023
Beyoncé put on a mind-blowing show that celebrated the unheralded pioneers of house music and ball culture: Black, queer, and trans artists.
BABYMETAL performs on their BABYKLOK tour.
In a Babymetal Galaxy, Far, Far Away…
By Sofia Hrycyszyn, Senior Arts Writer / October 8, 2023
The ultimate kawaii metal group (and no, that’s not a contradiction) takes on Chicago.
Ensemble member Ian Barford with Judy Greer in Steppenwolf Theatre’s world premiere of "Another Marriage."
“Another Marriage” Shows Another Way of Looking at Marriage
By Miki Mukawa / October 4, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Miki Mukawa reviews Steppenwolf Theatre’s "Another Marriage."
A stack of issues of The Maroon.
The “Write” Way to Get Involved on Campus
By Zachary Leiter and Natalie Manley / September 19, 2023
Whether you’re a dedicated journalist, a zealous creative writer, or just anyone interested in writing about anything, UChicago has something for you.
The Hunt for UChicago’s Superior Matcha
The Hunt for UChicago’s Superior Matcha
By Lainey Gregory and Miki Mukawa / September 19, 2023
Just in time for fall quarter, Deputy Arts Editors Miki Mukawa and Lainey Gregory review UChicago’s iced matcha lattes.
Let’s Taco ’Bout Food Trucks
Let’s Taco ’Bout Food Trucks
By Lainey Gregory / September 19, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Lainey Gregory gives her takes on the best (and worst) food trucks that UChicago has to offer.
We spent the next few days at this year’s Pitchfork festival, in all of its indie rock, overpriced smoothie, occasional mosh pit glory. 
The Rhythms and Revelations of Pitchfork Music Festival 2023
By Jordyn Flaherty and Mete Bakircioglu / September 2, 2023
Jordyn Flaherty and Mete Bakircioglu cover three unforgettable days in Chicago's Union Park.
Kokandy’s "The SpongeBob Musical," from the very beginning, did an excellent job of making it feel as though the audience had been dropped into the middle of a fantastical underwater world.
Chopin Theatre’s “The SpongeBob Musical” Makes a Medium-Sized Splash
By Miki Mukawa / September 2, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Miki Mukawa spends an evening in a pineapple under the sea.
Headliner Lil Uzi Vert crowdsurfing. Credit: @shotbydecat.
Rap Carnival: Lyrical Lemonade and SPKRBX’s fifth annual Summer Smash Festival
By Lainey Gregory / July 30, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Lainey Gregory reviews 13 of the biggest acts at Summer Smash 2023.
From July 21-23, Pitchfork Music Festival returns to Union Park with a diverse and exciting slate of established artists and up-and-comers. 
Pitchfork Music Festival 2023: An Exciting Lineup of Indie Rock, Hip-Hop, Electronic Music, and More
By Mete Bakircioglu and Jordyn Flaherty / July 19, 2023
From July 21–23, Pitchfork Music Festival returns to Union Park with a diverse and exciting slate of established artists and up-and-comers. Check out some of the artists we’re most excited to see from this year’s lineup.
On March 23, American rapper Markeyvius LaShun Cathey, better known as Key Glock, stopped at Radius Chicago on his 2023 Glockoma Tour. 
Key Glock’s Juxtaposition of Unhinged Antics and Wholesome Sentiments
By Lainey Gregory / June 23, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Lainey Gregory covers Key Glock’s show at Radius Chicago as a part of his 2023 Glockoma Tour.
"Aztec Human Sacrifice" played at City Lit Theater from May 5 to June 18. 
Aztec Apocalypse With Director Jay Españo
By Toby Chan / June 9, 2023
"The Maroon" sits down with director Jay Españo to talk about the behind-the-scenes of his latest play, "Aztec Human Sacrifice."
On the eve of a new dawn, the chosen sacrifice (Freddy Mauricio) makes a daring escape from the High Priest (Luis Del Valle; pictured right). 
Love and Death at the End of the World
By Toby Chan, Arts Reporter / June 7, 2023
Arts reporter Toby Chan reviews City Lit Theater’s new musical, "Aztec Human Sacrifice."
Accompanied by an array of lights and lasers, lead vocalist Wayne Coyne appeared centerstage, inside his signature bubble, between four colossal pink robot inflatables.
The Flaming Lips Take Flight at the Salt Shed
By Toby Chan / June 6, 2023
Arts Reporter Toby Chan covers the Flaming Lips concert on May 5 at the Salt Shed in honor of the 20th anniversary of "Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots."
In a simple white T-shirt and black jeans, [Lewis Capaldi] leaned into the audience, his hair seemingly blowing in the breeze.
Lewis Capaldi: The Artist for Sad, Single People
By Lainey Gregory and Sofia Hrycyszyn / June 6, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Lainey Gregory and Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn cover Lewis Capaldi’s Chicago show on his "Broken by Desire to Be Heavenly Sent" tour.
Dylan Brady of 100 gecs sports his classic wizard hat and cloak, with his musical-partner Laura Les projected behind him.
A Lot of Gecs: 100 Gecs Takes On the Aragon
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / June 6, 2023
Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn reviews 100 gecs’ sold-out show at the Aragon Ballroom on April 20.
(Left to right) Martasia Jones, Kandice Robins, and David Goodloe in Jackie Sibblies Drury’s "Fairview."
“Fairview” Shocks, Shames, and Shatters the Fourth Wall
By Zachary Leiter / June 5, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Zachary Leiter reviews Definition Theatre’s production of the 2019 Pulitzer Prize-winning "Fairview."
Bassist John Stirratt stood to Tweedy’s right, with drummer Glenn Kotche in the shadows at the back of the stage. 
Wilco is Chicago Through and Through
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / May 22, 2023
Arts reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn covers the classic Chicago experience of Wilco at the Riviera.
For fourth-year Jhung Kim, making music has always been about the unexpected.
Jhung Came Out of the Blue
By Tomás Miriti Pacheco, Arts Contributor / May 18, 2023
What was intended as a one-off EP has instead (re)launched the student artist’s musical career.
A Curtain Call to Die For
By Kaitlin Langille / May 17, 2023
Arts reporter Kaitlin Langille reviews Moira Buffini’s black comedy "Dying for It" at The Den Theatre.
Being Led to the Slaughterhouse in Aria Dean’s “Abattoir, USA!”
By Natalie Hoge / May 5, 2023
Arts contributor Natalie Hoge experienced the uncanny horror of the meat industry at the Renaissance Society’s current exhibition.
Snarky Puppy: Made to Sing and Dance Along To, No Lyrics Required
By Natalie Manley and Samuel Cody / May 5, 2023
Head Arts Editor Natalie Manley and Arts Reporter Samuel Cody cover Snarky Puppy’s performance at Riviera Theatre.
Photo Essay: Humans of Hyde Park
Photo Essay: Humans of Hyde Park
By Jenna Moor, Cristina Rodriguez, Anju Lukose-Scott, and Léa Sainz-Gootenberg / May 4, 2023
Maroon Arts presents introduction to eight of Hyde Park’s residents through their own words, inspired by "Humans of New York" by Brandon Stanton.
Roan took hold of the microphone, slipping right into the lyrics.
Chappell Roan: Naked in the Subterranean
By Sofia Hrycyszyn and Lainey Gregory / April 16, 2023
Arts Reporters Sofia and Lainey cover Chappell Roan’s Naked in North America Tour performance at the Subterranean.
[From left to right] Samuel B. Jackson, Akili Ni Mali, Tiffany Renee Johnson, Destini Huston and Demetra Dee in Steppenwolf's “Chlorine Sky.”
Love, Identity, and Pink Jumpsuits: A Review of Steppenwolf Theater’s “Chlorine Sky”
By Miki Mukawa / April 16, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Miki Mukawa reviews Steppenwolf Theater’s "Chlorine Sky," adapted from Mahogany L. Browne’s book of the same name.
Julia Wolf is Trying, and Succeeding
By Evy Wyman / April 16, 2023
Arts Reporter Evy Wyman recounts rising rap-pop star Julia Wolf’s surprise-filled performance at Schubas Tavern.
Writer and director Zach Braff at the college roundtable for his new film, "A Good Person."
Authentic Grief in Zach Braff’s “A Good Person”
By Miki Mukawa / April 16, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Miki Mukawa reviews MGM’s new film "A Good Person" and interviews writer and director Zach Braff in a college roundtable.
Snarky Puppy performs at Riviera Theatre in Chicago.
“Chaos Inside of Order”
By Natalie Manley / April 10, 2023
Snarky Puppy’s Michael League on genre, jam sessions, Grammy wins, and the group’s Around-The-Globe tour.
Glenn Davis (left) watches as Yasen Peyankov (right) re-writes Soviet history with a black marker. 
Yasen Peyankov Is Spectacular in Steppenwolf’s Deep and Disturbing “Describe the Night”
By Zachary Leiter / April 10, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Zachary Leiter reviews "Describe the Night," a strong, character-driven retelling of the life and death of Russian Jewish writer Isaac Babel.
With her huge smile and relatability, Ber is an incredible show.
Ber’s Ultimate Breakup Music
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / April 10, 2023
Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn covers opening night for Ber’s Halfway Across America Tour.
Whether it be the dancing of the crowd, the liveliness of the music, or the sentiment within the lyrics, Lost Kings truly did provide something for everyone.
Lost Kings on Finding Their Rhythm
By Lainey Gregory / April 10, 2023
Associate Arts Editor Lainey Gregory sits down with EDM DJ duo Lost Kings to discuss the evolution of their sound, their relatability, and plans for new music.
Lead singer Murphy was the most dynamic, his drunken movements comical and exciting.
The Viagra Boys: Our Favorite Middle-Aged “Punk Rock Losers”
By Sofia Hrycyszyn and Lainey Gregory / April 10, 2023
Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn and Associate Arts Editor Lainey Gregory cover the Viagra Boys’ perfectly punk performance at the newly opened Salt Shed.
A Bright Blue Break from Studying
A Bright Blue Break from Studying
By Evy Wyman / March 26, 2023
Arts contributor Evy Wyman recounts the enthralling confusion she experienced seeing the Blue Man Group live and thriving post-pandemic.
To his fans' delight, NAV fills up the stage and room at the Aragon. 
Nav’s Knack for Collaboration and Connection
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / March 26, 2023
Arts Reporter Sofia Hrycyszyn covers Nav's glorious return to Chicago for his Never:Sleep Tour.
Susaan Jamshidi and Adam Shalzi in Raven
Theatre’s Chicago premiere of Right To Be Forgotten.
“Right To Be Forgotten” Is a Welcome, If Somewhat Distracted, Portrayal of Internet Privacy Debates
By Zachary Leiter / March 1, 2023
By the play’s end, what’s clear is that Right To Be Forgotten has at the very least tried diligently and innovatively to restore personal connection to a COVID-altered world. Where the play failed to fully do so, well, often so do we.
Mitzi Levensorger and her nephew Zale play violin on a stair platform in Ida Noyes, a "traditional spot" for impromptu jam sessions at the Festival.
63rd Annual UChicago Folk Festival Roars Back to Passionate, Collaborative Life
By Angelina Torre / March 1, 2023
After two years of virtual performances, the UChicago Folk Festival returned on campus for a much-anticipated revival.
Justin Tranter Gives Back to The Chicago Academy for the Arts
Justin Tranter Gives Back to The Chicago Academy for the Arts
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / February 26, 2023
Justin Tranter, songwriter and activist, visits their Alma Mater, The Chicago Academy for the Arts, in celebration of recent donation.
Landon Conrath and Yam Haus Are Sincere and Celebratory at the Beat Kitchen
By Advaita Sood / February 22, 2023
Arts Contributor Advaita Sood reviews Landon Conrath and Yam Haus’s indie-pop performances at the Beat Kitchen and Conrath’s 2022 album "Nothing Matters Anyway."
"Outer Banks" Season 3 premieres on Netflix on February 23rd.
“Outer Banks” Season 3 Is a Thrilling and Fitting, If Unwieldy, Continuation of the Hit Series
By Zachary Leiter / February 22, 2023
"Outer Banks" season 3 ends with its story and characters in the right places, despite a series of wrong turns and questionable moments, Deputy Arts Editor Zachary Leiter writes.
Photo Essay: UChi-Con Brings Together Creativity and Passion for Anime
Photo Essay: UChi-Con Brings Together Creativity and Passion for Anime
By Ruby Martinez and Cristina Rodriguez / February 22, 2023
Thousands of artists, cosplayers, and anime lovers gathered on campus for the Japanese Animation Society’s annual convention.
It’s a Wednesday night at the Studebaker Theater, and 70 minutes into Moby Dick, an immense white whale painted on a screen slowly covers a dark stage.
At the Chicago International Puppet Theater Festival, Moby Dick Delights and Dazzles
By Toby Chan / February 15, 2023
Arts Reporter Toby Chan attends Plexus Polaire’s "Moby Dick" at the Chicago International Puppet Theater Festival and commends its “pure artistry” and “magic.”
"Somebody I Used to Know"...is a story of self-discovery—one even rom-com haters can probably appreciate.
Chasing the “One That Got Away” in “Somebody I Used to Know”
By Miki Mukawa / February 15, 2023
Arts Reporter Miki Mukawa reviews Amazon Prime’s new film “Somebody I Used to Know” and interviews co-writers Alison Brie and Dave Franco in a college roundtable.
What “Her” Tells Us About Technology, Isolation, and Romance
By Uma Mani / February 15, 2023
In the context of our tech-driven, transient world, “Her” reveals increasingly important truths.
Listing Love Songs: An Arts Reporter’s Top Twelve
By Belle Nahoom / February 14, 2023
Arts Reporter Belle Nahoom takes on the challenge of creating a playlist of her top 12 love songs just in time for Valentine’s Day.
A forest’s ghostly prettiness first drew me to Ori Gersht’s “White Noise 01” [pictured above] and “White Noise 02.”
Mind Your Own Business (School): Booth’s Art Collection
By Ben DeMott / February 8, 2023
Arts contributor Ben DeMott urges you to visit Booth—not to change your major to business economics but to engage with art.
From left to right: Elaine Carlson, David Fink, Sahara Glasener-Boles, James Sparling in City Lit Theater's production of "The Birthday Party." (Photo by Steve Graue.)
City Lit Theater Flirts with Uncertainty in Pinter’s The Birthday Party
By Zachary Leiter / February 5, 2023
In Edgewater, Chicago, City Lit Theater’s production of Harold Pinter’s 1957 The Birthday Party is frightening; immersive; and, above all, sophisticated.
Catherine (Leah Brotherhead) and Heathcliff (Liam Tamne), with the company of Wise Children’s Wuthering Heights, adapted and directed by Emma Rice, presented as part of Chicago Shakespeare Theater’s WorldStage Series, January 27–February 19, 2023. Photo by Kevin Berne, courtesy of Berkeley Repertory Theatre.
Wise Children’s “Wuthering Heights:” Pretty but Lacking Depth
By Zachary Leiter / February 5, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Zachary Leiter reviews Wise Children and Berkeley Repertory Theatre’s production of Wuthering Heights.
Damien Chazelle’s Babylon Is an Ambitious, Fundamentally Flawed Spectacle
By Cristina Rodriguez / January 29, 2023
Even if you end up hating it, Babylon will surely have you glued to your seat, amazed at cinema’s endless possibilities. 
Empress Of’s vocals stood out amid pulsing rhythm and smooth synths of the song.
Empress Of Asserts Herself as a Rising Dance-Pop Star
By Dawn Heatherly / January 25, 2023
Deputy Arts Editor Dawn Heatherly recounts Empress Of’s performance at Aragon Ballroom in support of Carly Rae Jepsen.
Sola Thompson in Steppenwolf Theatre’s world premiere adaptation of 1919 by Eve L. Ewing, adapted by J. Nicole Brooks, directed by Gabrielle Randle-Bent and Tasia A. Jones. 
Steppenwolf’s “1919” Brings Eve Ewing’s Poetry to Vivid and Insightful Life
By Reema Saleh / January 25, 2023
Arts Reporter Reema Saleh reviews Steppenwolf for Young Adults’ production of Eve Ewing’s poetry collection "1919," which explores the history of race relations in Chicago and the city’s Red Summer.
The words of one of the other photographers in the pit rang in my head: “I’ve been to a ton of concerts, and Rainbow Kitten Surprise is the best I’ve ever seen.”
Rainbow Kitten Surprise Brings Intimate Theatrical Energy to Chicago Performance
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / January 25, 2023
Known for their folksy harmonies, infectious rhythms, and perfectly timed instrumentals, RKS is an unmissable show.
(Left to right) Luke Halpern, Alec Phan, and Crystal Claros in BoHo Theater's "tick, tick... BOOM!"
“tick, tick… BOOM!” Lives in Little Moments Between Dialogue and Lyric
By Zachary Leiter / January 22, 2023
Deputy Art Editor Zachary Leiter reviews BoHo Theater’s all-trans and non-binary cast and crew production of Jonathan Larson’s semi-autobiographical musical.
A Folk Festival jam session of years past. 
University Folk Festival Returns for 63rd Year
By Noah Glasgow / January 17, 2023
This year’s Folk Festival will feature Chicago’s “preeminent Mexican fiddler” and the Eastern European tunes of the gadulka.
Andrew Bird (left) and Alan Hampton at Gezelligheid in Chicago's Fourth Presbyterian Church
Andrew Bird Brings Much Needed Warmth to the Midwest at Gezelligheid
By Angelina Torre / January 15, 2023
Arts Contributor Angelina Torre experiences the return of Andrew Bird’s seasonal Gezelligheid concerts at Fourth Presbyterian Church
The Fourth Presbyterian Church on a spring day
And the Critic Said, “Let There Be Light”
By Angelina Torre / January 15, 2023
Arts Contributor Angelina Torre reviews the architecture of Fourth Presbyterian Church, a building on Michigan Avenue praised for its neo-Gothic style but overshadowed by surrounding high-rises.
The interior Red Snapper Restaurant in Hyde Park
There’s Nothing Fishy About Red Snapper
By Luke Laurence / January 11, 2023
Arts contributor Luke Laurence writes about Red Snapper, a hidden gem of Hyde Park.
Noah Kahan (pictured) performs with Adam Melchor at Riviera Theater
Adam Melchor and Noah Kahan Evoke Feelings of Love and Nostalgia
By Lainey Gregory / January 11, 2023
Arts reporter Lainey Gregory reviews Adam Melchor and Noah Kahan’s recent performance at the Riviera Theater.
In his 2022 album "Component System with the Auto Reverse" ("CSAR"), the 42-year-old hip-hop artist rediscovers his identity with a soundtrack that combines retro boom-bap rap beats (a ’90s production style that used prominent bass and snare drums) with more contemporary sounds. 
Open Mike Eagle Takes Masterful Lyricism and Versatility to New Level at Beat Kitchen
By Advaita Sood / January 5, 2023
Arts contributor Advaita Sood recounts the unforgettable experience of seeing Open Mike Eagle perform his newest album live in Chicago.
Jhung, Ravyn Lenae Stun in Mandel Hall for MAB’s Fall Concert
By Noah Glasgow, Deputy Arts Editor / December 15, 2022
UChicago’s Major Activities Board (MAB) kicked off their 2022–23 event slate with a double-billed show at the end of the fall quarter. University of Chicago student artist Jhung, whose indie-pop tracks...

Installation view of "Monochrome Multitudes," showing works by Ellsworth Kelly, Barnett Newman, Palermo, Helen Frankenthaler, Enrico Castellani, John Plumb, and Yves Klein. 
The Power of the Monochrome
By Noah Glasgow, Associate Arts Editor / December 13, 2022
Avery Preesman’s diptych “Echo”: On the left, lines of micro wax run with Cartesian precision across a large canvas panel, and the whole piece is painted a single flat sterling. On the right, a much...

[Left to right] Isabel Rivera, Lauren Smith, Isabella Maria Valdes, and Elena Victoria Feliz. 
Steep Theatre’s Our Dear Dead Drug Lord is Terrifying and Thrilling, in Spite of an Imperfect Script
By Zachary Leiter, Associate Arts Editor / December 13, 2022
Content Warning: drug use, graphic descriptions of violence and abortion In a make-believe tree house in a real-life-used-to-be-church on the North Side of Chicago, Steep Theatre’s production of Alexis...

When I first took the pitch for this article—to write about my takeaways from a classic holiday movie—I was determined to write a passionate defense of Frank Capra’s 1946 classic "It’s a Wonderful Life."
A Tireless Thesis-less Tirade on the Tiresome Trials and Troubling Tribulations of Too Many Terrible Christmas Movies
By Zachary Leiter, Associate Arts Editor / December 7, 2022
When I first took the pitch for this article—to write about my takeaways from a classic holiday movie—I was determined to write a passionate defense of Frank Capra’s 1946 classic It’s a Wonderful...

As the holidays approach, there’s no better way to avoid work than to relax in a café with a hot chocolate in hand. 
The Drink of December: A Ranking of UChicago’s Best Cups of Hot Cocoa
By Lainey Gregory, Arts Reporter / November 30, 2022
As the holidays approach, there’s no better way to avoid work than to relax in a café with a hot chocolate in hand. With so many cafés on campus, it can be hard to know where to start your search....

Joseph Beal as Plebian and Mikha’el Amin as Mark Antony in "Julius Caesar" at Invictus Theatre. 
Invictus Theatre’s “Julius Caesar” is an Interesting, If Muddled, Production
By Francesco P. Rahe, Arts Reporter / November 16, 2022
“Brutus is an honorable man.” Even if you’ve never seen Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, you’re likely to have heard this quote from Caesar’s funeral in act 3, scene 2. Of course, the quote’s...

In front of the neon Goose Island sign, we bumped into a Little Red Riding Hood and a neo-wolf with a light-up LED mask. 
An Unforgettable Halloweekend with HalloWolfbat
By Sofia Hrycyszyn and Lainey Gregory / November 16, 2022
The warehouse-like building was mostly black-painted brick, but the exterior wall facing the back parking lot depicted a yellow-orange Chicago skyline. In the clouds above the Willis Tower, the mural affirms...

The view from the author’s seat. 
You Can’t Get This on the Radio
By Henry Josephson, Arts Contributor / November 13, 2022
I now know how the sausage is made—and, frankly, that knowledge makes me love it even more. Of course, the sausage of which I speak is metaphorical, standing for the weekly National Public Radio (NPR)...

Giveon is known for his distinct sound, smooth vocals, and riveting songwriting.
R&B Artist Giveon Performs at Sold-Out Concert
By Sabrina Chang, Arts Reporter / November 13, 2022
Grammy-nominated R&B artist Giveon performed to a sold-out crowd in Chicago on October 2. This marked the 33rd show on his North America tour for his newest album, Give or Take. The setlist also included...

[From left to right] Sebastian Szary, Sascha Ring (Aparat), and Gernot Bronsert. 
Moderat Enthusiasm: German EDM at The Riviera Theatre
By Sofia Hrycyszyn and Isadora Kron / November 13, 2022
With elegant gold moldings and gilded box seats, the architecture of Chicago’s Riviera Theater is almost always at odds with the music and lights on stage. This was especially true for the September...

“Causeway” is a film about confronting trauma in companionship.
“Causeway” Director Lila Neugebauer on the Joys and Challenges of Being a First-Time Filmmaker
By Cristina Rodriguez, Arts Reporter / November 13, 2022
On October 17, filmmaker Lila Neugebauer and I sat down to discuss her debut film Causeway, featured in the Chicago International Film Festival. The project is not only her directorial premiere but also...

Jim Morley as Dodge, Roberto Jay as Vince, and Robert Tobin as Tilden in AstonRep’s "Buried Child."
AstonRep Theater Brings Disillusionment to Life—and Death—with “Buried Child”
By Zachary Leiter, Associate Arts Editor / November 9, 2022
At The Edge Theater, north of Chicago, AstonRep Theatre Company opened their 15th and final season with a searing and beautiful production of Sam Shepard’s Pulitzer Prize-winning Buried Child. Written...

"The Cleanup" is, like a preschool, a collection of overused items sitting around and waiting for someone to laugh at them, and when those items are used, it's so often in a destructive manner. 
Prop Thtr’s The Cleanup is an Overwritten but Underdeveloped Look at Post-Pandemic Life
By Zachary Leiter, Associate Arts Editor / October 31, 2022
At the Athenaeum Center for Thought and Culture, Prop Thtr’s 41st season return to in-person programming is the eagerly stale The Cleanup. For Prop Thtr, which bills itself as “Chicago’s home for...

Consider having this newly created, refreshing [“carrot air”] on a tasting menu at a student-run restaurant called Chef’s Table at The Crescent, or simply “The Crescent.”
Three UChicago Students’ Pop-Up Restaurant and What It Can Tell Us About Fine Dining
By Yiwen Lu, Managing Editor and Arts Contributor / October 30, 2022
I. Food Consider a carrot. Consider juicing the carrot. Consider blending the carrot juice. Consider taking only the light foam sitting on the surface of the liquid. Consider the slightly orange foam...

Steve Peebles as Macbeth in Three Crows’ abridged production of Shakespeare’s classic tragedy. 
Three Crows’s Black Box “Macbeth” is Intimate, Accessible, and Full of Heart
By Zachary Leiter, Associate Arts Editor / October 25, 2022
This October at the Redtwist Theatre in the Edgewater neighborhood of Chicago, the Three Crows ensemble theater company has crafted an intriguing, if imperfect, iteration of Shakespeare’s Macbeth. Three...

Fantastical versions of Betsy Ross (Celeste M. Cooper) and Abigail Adams (Sydney Charles) visit Miz Martha Washington (Cindy Gold) in a dream.
Steppenwolf’s “Miz Martha” is a Feverish, Elaborate, and Infuriatingly Didactic Production
By Zachary Leiter, Associate Arts Editor / October 19, 2022
Shown this fall at Steppenwolf Theatre, James Ijames’s The Most Spectacularly Lamentable Trial of Miz Martha Washington is a grotesque, dark, darkly humorous, and energetic exploration of America’s...

Phoebe Bridgers’s Reunion Tour concert at the Huntington Bank Pavilion brought together a sea of Bridgers fans in Dr. Martens and skeleton costumes. 
Phoebe Bridgers Provides an Outlet for Sadness
By Cristina Rodríguez Rojas, Arts Reporter / October 5, 2022
“The next song is a bummer,” Phoebe Bridgers warned the crowd before performing her heartbreak anthem “Moon Song.” But all of us in the audience already knew the melancholy that was in store for...

Dwight Sora (A.B. ‘95) recently performed in The Gift Theatre’s production of "At the Vanishing Point."
University Alum Dwight Sora Reflects on Acting, Aikido, and How the Pandemic Changed His Ambitions
By Abigail Poag, Arts Reporter / October 5, 2022
Dwight Sora (A.B. ’95) is mere feet from the audience. Clad in a baseball cap and blue jeans, he sits in a pale green armchair on a wooden platform set apart from the main stage. He is so close to the...

From clay tablets inscribed with cuneiform to a Human-Headed Winged Bull ("Lamassu") (pictured above), [the Oriental Institute] holds ancient artifacts from places such as Egypt, Mesopotamia, and Syria
Whether You’re in a Museum, Café, or Dorm, Art is Everywhere at UChicago
By Angélique Alexos / September 25, 2022
Angélique Alexos presents an overview of what to see and where to see it, UChicago art edition.
The Worst First Date Spots on Campus
The Worst First Date Spots on Campus
By Sabrina Chang / September 24, 2022
Take your O-Week crush to these places on campus…but only if you want to ruin your chances of scoring a second date.
Once you learn about all the accessible opportunities available through UChicago’s ArtsPass program, you may feel as though you’ve scored a spot on the red carpet and suddenly find yourself booking tickets and preparing for your first of many excursions to explore arts and culture in Chicago.
Feel Like a VIP With ArtsPass
By Angélique Alexos / September 24, 2022
Head Arts Editor Angélique Alexos gives an overview of the ArtsPass program along with recommendations from events covered by "Maroon" Arts editors, reporters, and contributors.
"The Chicago Maroon" is UChicago’s independent student-run newspaper and oldest publication. With articles published online daily and in print every other week, "The Maroon" is the University’s one-stop shop for on-campus and local South Side news, student op-eds, long-form feature pieces, arts reviews, and sports updates.
The “Write” Way to Get Involved on Campus
By Natalie Manley / September 23, 2022
From science and policy journals to music and fashion magazines, UChicago’s long list of student publications has something for anyone and everyone who loves to write.
Even if Cobb doesn’t sound like your cup of tea, it’s an unspoken campus rite of passage to wander down there at least once before you graduate. 
Piping Hot Takes: A Review of UChicago’s Student Cafes (and Some Honorable Mentions)
By Natalie Manley / September 22, 2022
There’s a latte to love about the cafés on and around campus, but a few stand out above the rest.
I Went to Lollapalooza and Learned the Value of Living in the Moment
By Luke Laurence, Arts Reporter / September 1, 2022
The summer sun beat down mercilessly, and the bass echoed in my ears. All I could hear was sound, fatigue blending the words and notes together into an all-enveloping wall of noise. I flailed around, frantically...

Løløpalooza
By Luke Laurence, Arts Reporter / September 1, 2022
Millennial–punk–emo–goth–anxiety–Harry-Potter–angst–depression–boys–Tiffany-Blue–pop-rock–Green-Day–Breaking-Bad–genre–defying–confessional music. Pop, punk. But never pop...

Fun in the Sun at Lolla
By Katie Fraser, Associate Arts Editor / September 1, 2022
The first thing I thought about during my four-day weekend at Lollapalooza was that the weather was in my favor. The 81-degree heat did melt glitter off people’s faces and drive festival attendees to...

[“Unsettled Ground”] conceptualizes different ideas around how the environment shapes cultures and communities beyond the Western scope.
“Wounded Knee III” in “Unsettled Ground” Destabilizes Conversations Around the Ground Beneath Our Feet
By Kina Takahashi / June 6, 2022
“Unsettled Ground” destabilizes conversations around how we interact with our environment.
James Turano as George, Andrea Uppling as Martha, Keenan Odenkirk as Nick, and Rachel Livingston as Honey.
I’m Afraid of “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?”
By Noah Glasgow / June 6, 2022
Invictus Theatre Company stages a bold and personal revival of Edward Albee’s 1962 classic about marital strife and the stories we tell each other.
Yet with “Men,” I relished the discomfort inherent in its inscrutability instead of shying away from it.
“Men” Brings Alex Garland Into Surreal and Unfamiliar Territory
By Neel Lahiri / June 6, 2022
The acclaimed director of “Ex Machina” and “Annihilation” sheds his science fiction roots for a foray into surreal horror.
The cover of Yumi Zouma’s 2022 album, “Present Tense.”
Dreamy and Bright, Yumi Zouma Plays at Lincoln Hall After a Pandemic Pause
By Lydia Dimsu / June 6, 2022
Arts reporter Lydia Dimsu recounts her full-circle experience of seeing Yumi Zouma perform live.
Pictured (left to right): Wahid, Veronica, Alina
Ye Olden Maroon Voices: With Love, the Former Arts Eds
By Wahid Al Mamun / June 6, 2022
Former Arts editors Wahid Al Mamun, Veronica Chang, and Alina Kim reflect on their time with "The Maroon."
The MFA thesis exhibition "Beautiful Snail" is a contemporary display dedicated to showcasing the talents of graduate students based in the visual arts majors at the University of Chicago.
MFA Thesis Exhibition “Beautiful Snail” is Immersive and Obscure
By Belle Nahoom / June 6, 2022
The MFA thesis exhibition, now on display at the Logan Center, brings contemporary art to UChicago.
(From left to right) Philip C. Matthews as Freddy, Travis Ascione as Picasso, and Dan Deuel as Gaston in "Picasso at the Lapin Agile."
Steve Martin’s “Picasso at the Lapin Agile” Provides Good Humor and Little Else
By Zachary Leiter / June 4, 2022
Associate Arts Editor Zachary Leiter attends Citadel Theatre Company’s production of Steve Martin’s 1993 "Picasso at the Lapin Agile."
mxmtoon Take Indie Pop to the Stage
mxmtoon Take Indie Pop to the Stage
By Veronica Chang / May 24, 2022
“Chill,” but not in a boring way, mxmtoon’s Chicago concert was an ode to COVID-era indie girl bedroom pop.
A Review of the Smart Museum’s Newest Exhibit.
This House is Bob Thompson’s
By Belle Nahoom / May 24, 2022
A review of the Smart Museum’s newest exhibit.
Hiss Golden Messenger Is Quietly Blowing It, but They’re Still Great
Hiss Golden Messenger Is Quietly Blowing It, but They’re Still Great
By Zachary Leiter / May 24, 2022
At Thalia Hall, Hiss Golden Messenger and lead MC Taylor displayed the strange sounds and strong lyrics that are the band’s claim to Americana fame, even as their songs feels less innovative than ever.
“Happy and Healthy”: Olivia Rodrigo’s Sour Tour Is Pretty Sweet
“Happy and Healthy”: Olivia Rodrigo’s Sour Tour Is Pretty Sweet
By Amala Karri / May 23, 2022
The 19-year-old Disney star–turned–pop singer spent two nights of her SOUR tour performing sold-out shows in downtown Chicago.
The cover of Samantha Rose Hill's new biography on philosopher and political theorist Hannah Arendt, which is titled "Hannah Arendt."
Samantha Rose Hill Talks with The Maroon About Her New Biography, Hannah Arendt
By Suzanna Murawski / May 16, 2022
Hill, a faculty member at the Brooklyn Institute for Social Research, discussed race, ideology, and public discourse in an exclusive interview with The Chicago Maroon.
On April 29, Fruit Bats performed in Thalia Hall, contrasting their neon lights with the Gothic architecture in a way that reflected their indie-folk style.
Fruit Bats and Neon Clouds
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / May 16, 2022
Fruit Bats, with roots in Chicago, returned to Thalia Hall for a lively and passionate performance.
VietFive, located downtown on West Madison, is Chicago’s first Vietnamese coffee shop.
Twice the Caffeine, Twice the Culture: VietFive Brings Traditional Vietnamese Coffee to Chicago
By Miki Mukawa / May 12, 2022
Arts reporter Miki Mukawa reviews Chicago’s newly opened Vietnamese coffee shop, VietFive, and sits down with Tuan Huynh, its founder and owner, to discuss the value of cross-cultural immigrant stories.
Arts reporters Jed Whalen Stewart and Sofia Hrycyszyn review Wilderado’s concert at Schubas Tavern.
Good Music, Better Company: Wilderado Plays Chicago
By Sofia Hrycyszyn and Jed Stewart / May 10, 2022
Arts reporters Jed Whalen Stewart and Sofia Hrycyszyn review Wilderado’s concert at Schubas Tavern.
Ballet But Different: Ballet Folklórico de México Stops in Chicago on their USA 2022 World Tour
Ballet But Different: Ballet Folklórico de México Stops in Chicago on their USA 2022 World Tour
By Katie Fraser / May 10, 2022
Associate Arts Editor Katie Fraser reviews the Ballet Folklórico de México company’s performance at the Auditorium Theatre.
Lucinda Williams Transcendent at Unity Temple in "Good Souls Better Angels" Tour
Lucinda Williams Transcendent at Unity Temple in “Good Souls Better Angels” Tour
By Alison Gill / May 10, 2022
The country-rock star stirred up emotions and commanded an astounding presence in an intimate, rollicking Oak Park concert.
This winter quarter, student-run groups The Ransom Notes and Voices in Your Head both competed in the annual International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella (ICCA).
Got Voices in Your Head? Send a Ransom Note…
By Sophie Pope McCright / April 29, 2022
Arts reporter Sophie Pope McCright sits down with The Ransom Notes and Voices in Your Head to reflect on both groups’ successful competition season.
Flanked by her dancers, Lipa emerged in a lime bodysuit with matching gloves.
Dua Lipa: A Cause for “Future Nostalgia”
By Sofia Hrycyszyn / April 29, 2022
Dua Lipa’s most recent tour captivated audiences. Her catchy tunes, bright colors, and complex choreography kept a packed United Center engaged.
Yeesookyung, "Translated Vase," 2007, Ceramic fragments, epoxy, and gold leaf.
The Mesmeric and Complex Beauty of Yeesookyung’s “Translated Vase”
By Julian Stern / April 27, 2022
Associate Arts Editor Julian Stern reviews the Smart Museum’s recent exhibition "Porcelain: Material and Storytelling" through an in-depth conversation about one of its central pieces, Yeesookyung’s "Translated Vase."
The poster for Meriem Bennani's "Life on the CAPS" (2022).
An Evening with Meriem Bennani: “CAPS” Trilogy
By Kina Takahashi / April 27, 2022
Bennani’s "CAPS" trilogy masterfully blends animation, documentary, and comedic filmmaking to capture the modern human experience.
Mark Wahlberg stars in Rosalind Ross' new film, "Father Stu."
“Father Stu”, a Faith Passion Project
By Cristina Rodríguez Rojas / April 17, 2022
Arts reporter Cristina Rodríguez Rojas reviews Rosalind Ross’ new film, "Father Stu", and interviews lead Mark Wahlberg about the film in a college roundtable.
Sammy Rae & The Friends are a big, energetic act.
& They Threw a Party
By Evan Williams / April 17, 2022
Arts reporter Evan Williams reflects on the intimacy created from the performance by Sammy Rae & The Friends.
The essence of the show’s failure was an unmistakable sense of shame on the part of both the producers and the Academy about who the show is for and what it is meant to celebrate.
The Oscars Forgot About the Movies
By Neel Lahiri / April 17, 2022
Arts reporter Neel Lahiri reflects on a disappointing Oscars ceremony and ranks the 2022 Best Picture nominees.
(From left to right) Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert, collectively known as Daniels.
Everything on Daniels, Everywhere and All at Once
By Veronica Chang / April 13, 2022
"The Maroon" sits down with directing duo Daniels to discuss Michelle Yeoh, "The Matrix", blending genres, creating chaos, and everything "Everything Everywhere All at Once."
"Everything Everywhere All at Once" feels more like a million shouts of love into an implausible void.
“Everything Everywhere All at Once” Is an Unhinged Triumph
By Veronica Chang / April 13, 2022
This review is for my mom, who would be the best multiverse-jumping hero.
The cover of Mayday Parade's 2007 album, "A Lesson In Romantics."
A Lesson in Mayday Parade
By Veronica Chang / April 13, 2022
In a review of Mayday Parade’s recent concert, Arts reporter Veronica Chang explores the changes that have occurred in the pop-punk genre.
Formed in 1999, Killswitch Engage has been at the forefront of metalcore—a blend of hardcore punk and extreme metal—for almost two decades.
Burning Loud and Bright, Killswitch Engage Screams About Living and Dying
By Zachary Leiter / April 13, 2022
Technically skilled, bold, and inspiring, famed metalcore band Killswitch Engage headlined a March 7th concert at Radius Chicago.
Adia Alli (left) portrayed Mamie Till-Mobley in Collaboraction’s "Trial in the Delta: The Murder of Emmett Till."
Authentic Transcript of Emmett Till Murder Trial Brought To The Stage In Heart-Wrenching Adaptation
By Sabrina Chang / April 13, 2022
“Trial in the Delta: The Murder of Emmett Till” was an immersive reenactment of the court proceedings in Mississippi in 1955 based on the real trial transcript that had been buried for 50 years.
Members of the cast of "When There Are Nine."
“When There Are Nine”: A Memorialization in Bad Taste
By Belle Nahoom / April 13, 2022
Arts reporter Belle Nahoom reviews “When There Are Nine” at the Pride Arts Center.
(From left to right) Ensemble member and Artistic Director Glenn Davis and Chris Perfetti in Steppenwolf Theatre’s production of “King James."
“King James” Review: A Meditation on Friendship, Race, and Basketball
By Noah Glasgow / April 12, 2022
With moments from LeBron James's career as linchpins, playwright Rajiv Joseph ponders the complicated relationship between two basketball superfans.
University Theater’s “The Heirs” Dazzled On its Opening Night
By Belle Nahoom / April 11, 2022
Arts reporter Belle Nahoom reviews University Theater’s “The Heirs.”
Left to right: Darya Denisova and Gene Ravvin in a scene from "Witness."
“Witness”: A Story of Refuge Denied
By Daisy Maslan, Arts Reporter / April 11, 2022
A virtual experience documents the histories of Jewish refugees and immigrants.
"The House" consists of three stories, all by different directors.
Netflix’s “The House:” Gorgeously Crafted Yet Predictable
By June Villers / April 10, 2022
“'The House,' without a doubt, is a gorgeously crafted film.… however, the events of the stories themselves...tend to fall into the old trap of somewhat predictable horror.”
The cover of Sammy Rae & The Friends' 2021 EP, "Let's Throw a Party."
You Can Be And And And And And And And
By Evan Williams / April 5, 2022
Arts Reporter Evan Williams talks queerness, lyrics, and becoming the next Mr. Rogers with soul-pop sensation Sammy Rae.
The exhibition currently on display at the Regenstein Library (the Reg), "A Book by Its Cover: Decorative Book Bindings from the Medieval Codex to Contemporary Artists’ Books," invites us to judge every book by its cover!
A Book by Its Cover: Decorative Book Bindings from the Medieval Codex to Contemporary Artists’ Books
By Kina Takahashi / April 5, 2022
Arts Reporter Kina Takahashi views the intricate "A Book by Its Cover: Decorative Book Bindings from the Medieval Codex to Contemporary Artists’ Books" at the Regenstein Library.
The six members of K-pop group, Oneus.
On Touring, Performance, and All Things Oneus
By Veronica Chang / April 1, 2022
Through virtual interview, "The Maroon" discussed touring, choreography, the ONEUS music universe and more with K-pop group Oneus.
K-pop often feels like more than a genre, encompassing far more than the music released in every debut or comeback.
Oneus: “Blood Moon” in the Windy City
By Veronica Chang / March 31, 2022
Oneus’s "Blood Moon" tour is a textbook example of how K-pop’s performativity lends itself to bombastic concerts.
The cover of Cautious Clay's first full-length album, "Deadpan Love."
Deadpan, Yet Full of Love: Cautious Clay on His Creative Process, Inspiration, and More
By Natalie Manley / March 13, 2022
Deputy Arts Editor Natalie Manley and Arts contributor Samuel Cody sat down with Cautious Clay to talk about his upcoming tour, most recent album, musical inspiration, hobbies, and background.
The cover of The Greeting Committee's "Dandelion."
The Greeting Committee Lives Up to Their Name on Stage
By Rachel Robinson / March 9, 2022
The Greeting Committee shook Subterranean with an energetic performance celebrating their second studio album, "Dandelion."
Jenise Sheppard and Tekeisha Yelton-Hunter in "Ruined."
Thrilling, Scarring, Pulitzer Prize–Winning Play “Ruined” Returns to Chicago
By Zachary Leiter / March 3, 2022
"Ruined"—loud, violent, and intimate—shines a light on the plight of women in the civil war–torn Democratic Republic of the Congo
Cautious Clay live in Montreal.
Good Karma and Good Friends
By Natalie Manley and Samuel Cody / March 2, 2022
Cautious Clay kicked off his 2022 Karma and Friends World Tour at the House of Blues in Chicago in lieu of his debut full-length album "Deadpan Love."
Griff’s effortless presence and bedroom pop backstory hide the amount of work she has put into her music.
Griff Shines in Sold-Out American Tour
By Jerry Shi and Sofia Hrycyszyn / March 2, 2022
A review of Griff's recent performance at Lincoln Hall.
The Arc Gallery’s “Body Politics” Exhibit Challenges Stigmatization
By Katie Fraser / March 2, 2022
A review of the Arc Gallery's recent exhibit, "Body Politics."
Members of the cast of "The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice" in rehearsal.
Abby Henkin on Court Theatre’s Return
By Charlie Kolodziej, Contributor / February 21, 2022
A word with Abby Henkin ’21 on her role in Court Theatre’s return to in-person performances.
Kelvin Roston Jr. (Othello) and Amanda Drinkall (Desdemona) perform in Court Theatre's recent production of "The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice."
Court Is Back! Thoughts on Its Opening Show: “The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice”
By Charlie Kolodziej, Contributor / February 20, 2022
A review of Court Theatre's production of "The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice."
There was something slightly eerie about seeing behind the walls of the home as if we were truly looking into another world.
Gem of the Ocean Stuns Audiences as August Wilson’s Legacy Lives On
By Belle Nahoom / February 20, 2022
Arts reporter Belle Nahoom reviews "Gem of the Ocean" at the Goodman Theatre.
"Licorice Pizza" follows 25-year-old Alana Kane (Alana Haim) and 15-year-old Gary Valentine (Cooper Hoffman) through the highs and lows of young love.
Alana Haim Reflects on the Joys and Difficulties of Her Acting Debut in “Licorice Pizza”
By Jennifer Morse / February 20, 2022
Maroon Arts Reporter Jennifer Morse joined student journalists from across the nation to discuss "Licorice Pizza" with actress Alana Haim in a recent college roundtable.
David Douglass (on the right) performs with the Newberry Consort.
Gut Strings and Humanism: A Chat With Renaissance Violinist David Douglass
By Adam DiMascio, Contributor / February 20, 2022
A conversation with violinist and concert curator, David Douglass.
Lisiecki, a Canadian pianist of Polish descent, is a virtuoso in high demand.
Ethereal, Evocative, Enchanting: Lisiecki’s Chopin Masterclass at Symphony Center
By Michael McClure / February 19, 2022
Arts reporter Michael McClure reviews Jan Lisiecki’s performance of selected études and nocturnes by Frédéric Chopin.
The Plant was born out of an old warehouse in Back of the Yards.
From Meat Plant to “The” Plant: The Curious Future of Sustainable Food Production in Chicago’s Meatpacking District
By Nicole Li and Brianna Zeng / February 19, 2022
The plant, a slaughterhouse turned vegan research production center and food market, is more than just Chicago’s next hipster hub.
From left to right, Jonah Hill, Leonardo DiCaprio, Meryl Streep, and Jennifer Lawrence in "Don’t Look Up."
Netflix’s “Don’t Look Up”: Star-Studded, With Little New To Say
By Noah Glasgow / February 19, 2022
Adam McKay’s new climate change satire sets out to entertain, not to advance the climate conversation.
-
Exploring “Expositions”
By Solana Adedokun / February 19, 2022
A new student publication aims to teach the UChicago community about urban and environmental topics while simultaneously training its contributors to write for broader audiences.
A Psalm Ate a Spell
A Psalm Ate a Spell
By Evan Williams / February 19, 2022
Ben Niespodziany speaks about his poetry collection "The Northerners" with "Maroon" Arts Reporter Evan Williams.
The Chicago Symphony is having a terrific season and not one worth missing.
Come With Me to See the Symphony
By Noah Glasgow / February 18, 2022
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra is having a terrific season; with ArtsPass tickets easily available, there’s never been a better time to relish in the joy of live music.
The album cover of Mitski's "Laurel Hell."
“Laurel Hell” is Mitski’s Take on Camp
By Parul Kumar / February 18, 2022
A review of Mitski's recently released album, "Laurel Hell."
Ella Purnell in "Yellowjackets."
Showtime’s “Yellowjackets” Captures the Thrilling Yet Traumatizing Trials and Tribulations of Girlhood Adolescence
By Alison Gill / February 15, 2022
"Yellowjackets" immerses its audience into its thrilling, traumatic world and fully realizes its characters in their pasts and present.
Cristin Milioti and Andy Samberg star in the modern rom-com, "Palm Springs."
Bring Out the Romance: Rom-Coms to Watch Around Valentine’s Day
By Belle Nahoom / February 15, 2022
A list of some of the best modern rom-coms to watch this year.
Don’t even get me started on the narrow wooden tables and musty gym vibes of Bartlett (pictured above) or the long community tables at Woodlawn that scream elementary school cafeteria.
Campus Spots to Avoid on a First Date
By Sabrina Chang / February 14, 2022
Take your Valentine to these places on campus… but not if you actually want a shot at a second date.
God, y'all love each other.
What I Learned Ghostwriting Your Love
By Evan Williams / February 13, 2022
Arts reporter Evan Williams breaks down the necessary aspects of writing heartfelt messages for love ones based on personal experience of writing poems for other people's partners.
Sasha Hutchings and Sean Grandillo perform as Laurey and Curley in "Oklahoma!"
“Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin’’’ to Go See Broadway’s Touring Production of “Oklahoma!”
By Belle Nahoom / February 13, 2022
Daniel Fish’s revival of "Oklahoma!" creates an even more menacing antagonist while reflecting on the morality of its original love story’s protagonist, along with commenting on gun violence in American society.
Dayglow's most recent album, "Harmony House," which was released in 2021.
Optimistic and Enthusiastic, Dayglow Shone at House of Blues
By Jordan Goodwin, Contributor / February 8, 2022
A review of Dayglow's music and recent concert at Chicago's House of Blues
"Valentine" is the sophomore album of Lindsey Jordan’s indie rock project Snail Mail.
ICYMI: Two Gems From Last Year
By Liviu Megherea / February 1, 2022
A review of two albums, "Valentine" and "The Romance of Affliction," that were released last year.
Kruger’s "Untitled (I shop therefore I am)."
Untitled (Barbara Kruger Is a Parody of Herself)
By Noor Zalt / February 1, 2022
A review of Barbara Kruger's recent exhibit at the Art Institute of Chicago titled, "Thinking of You. I Mean Me. I Mean You."
Various cast members perform a scene from Theater Wit's production of "Mr. Burns: A Post-Electric Play."
What Does Entertainment Mean in Apocalyptic Times?
By Nicole Stachowiak / January 19, 2022
Does art have value even as the world crumbles around us?
With over 400 “pizza stops” under their belt Tour De Pizza has taken social media by storm.
Man on a Mission: Chicago’s Friendly Neighborhood Pizza Man
By Ananya Sahai / January 18, 2022
Tour de Pizza is adding deeper meaning to our collective love for pizza. What makes it so good?
Rico Nasty performed in MAB’s first in-person show since 2019 this November.
Rico Rocked the Reynolds Club
By Kayla Martinez / January 18, 2022
Rico Nasty’s MAB Show Was Exactly the Energetic Return to In-Person Performances that UChicago Needed.
The performances of Joaquina Kalukango (left) as Nelly and Chilina Kennedy (right) as Annie were the highlights of the show.
Got Plot? What Musical “Paradise Square” Fails to Deliver in Plot It Delivers in Spectacle
By Belle Nahoom / January 11, 2022
Arts reporter Belle Nahoom reviews the Nederlander Theatre's pre-Broadway opening of "Paradise Square."
The cover of Puma Blue's 2021 album, "In Praise of Shadows."
A Candlelit Correspondence With Puma Blue
By Julian Stern, Associate Arts Editor / January 11, 2022
Artist Puma Blue speaks about his music and recent album, "In Praise of Shadows."
An array of dishes from the Taco Bell Cantina menu.
Hyde Park Eats: Taco Bell Cantina
By Luke Laurence, Contributor / January 11, 2022
A review of the Taco Bell Cantina in Hyde Park.
The MCU’s latest film follows the titular Eternals, ten immortal aliens who each have their own special abilities
The Fleeting “Eternals” Flies Too Close to the Sun
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / January 11, 2022
A well-intended portrayal of diversity and human imperfection, "Eternals" winds up deficient in other important storytelling aspects.
One of the many performances at the Spring Awakening festival in Chicago this fall.
Rain Can’t Dampen the Spirits at Spring Awakening
By Alex Dalton / November 30, 2021
The EDM festival was a suitable sendoff for a summer that saw the return of live music to Chicago.
With Bug, Steppenwolf Theatre Stages a Bold and Electric—If Overwhelming—Return to In-Person Shows
With Bug, Steppenwolf Theatre Stages a Bold and Electric—If Overwhelming—Return to In-Person Shows
By Noah Glasgow / November 30, 2021
The revival production, which runs through December 12 at Lincoln Park’s Steppenwolf Theatre, serves up commentary on race, relationships, and paranoia.
The Office Experience: A Not-So Office-Like Experience
The Office Experience: A Not-So Office-Like Experience
By Evan Williams / November 30, 2021
Arts reporter Evan Williams gives us the lowdown on why The Office Experience is not-so office-like after all following its recent opening on Mag Mile.
In the opening number, the Blue Men poured glow-in-the-dark paint on large bass drums so that vibrant yellow and pink rocketed upwards with each beat.
They’re Back, Blue, and Better Than Ever
By Jordan Goodwin, Contributor / November 15, 2021
The Blue Man Group upholds its reputation as one of the highlights of Chicago’s performing arts scene.
Dr. Srikanth Reddy is a Griffin Prize finalist and professor in the English and creative writing departments at the University of Chicago.
Phoenix Poets Series Poised for Relaunch
By Evan Williams / November 14, 2021
Dr. Srikanth Reddy heads up the series’ new editorial board.
Toba Khedoori's "Untitled (Black Fireplace)" is currently on display through December 19th as a part of the Smart Museum's "Toward Common Cause" exhibition.
Untitled (Lonesome Flame)
By Julian Stern, Associate Arts Editor / November 14, 2021
Arts reporter Julian Stern explores Toba Khedoori’s “Untitled (Black Fireplace)” and considers his place in its universe.
A selection of options from the LSTC Refectory menu.
Hyde Park Eats: The Refectory
By Luke Laurence, Contributor / November 14, 2021
A review of the Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago's Refectory.
The logo for the "Survivor: Chicago" game.
“Survivor: Chicago”: Surviving More Than Just a UChicago Education
By Natalie Hoge, Contributor / November 14, 2021
Students at UChicago have founded and are now participating in UChicago's first game of "Survivor."
100 gecs, AKA Dylan Brady (left) and Laura Les (right).
gecs on gecs on gecs
By Seth Nguyen / November 9, 2021
100 gecs returns to Chicago with both well-loved hits and unreleased bops up their sleeves.
The cast of "Everybody's Talking About Jamie."
Making a Movie of a Musical of a Documentary
By Jennifer Morse / November 7, 2021
Members of the cast of "Everybody's Talking About Jamie," talk about the movie and its production.
Pitchfork Fest drew a crowd desperate for entertainment after a year of all but devoid of it.
Pitchfork Lives On
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / November 7, 2021
For the first time in two years, Pitchfork Fest is back in Chicago and better than ever.
Eating has been a common subject of artists for centuries, but the “Last Supper” by Leonardo da Vinci is probably the most famous eating scene in the history of art. I wonder what Jesus would have thought of the Woodlawn Panini Station?
Red Velvet Bacchanalia: A Fourth Meal in Review
By Adam DiMascio, Contributor / November 3, 2021
He who feasts every day, feasts no day — Charles Simmons
Remi Wolf on the cover of her newest album, "Juno."
The New Popstar Archetype Performs in PJs
By Noor Zalt / November 3, 2021
Arts Reporter Noor Zalt reflects upon Remi Wolf’s fresh, unique stardom.
Dawn Dorland, left, and Sonya Larson, right
Little Fires Everywhere
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / November 1, 2021
A private Facebook group gone awry, plagiarism, sociopathic behavior…call it what you want—the virality of "Bad Art Friend" is deeply rooted in the ways we can and cannot talk and write about race in fiction.
Roland Møller as Otto in "The North Water."
Whalers in the Arctic!
By Nora Schultz / October 24, 2021
Using the series "The Terror" to review "The North Water" in order to better understand what happens between repressed Victorian-era men out on the icy sea.
Seong Gi-hun (Lee Jung-jae) in Netflix's "Squid Game". Or, my expression when I realized this article was over 1500 words.
What’s Left to Say About “Squid Game”?
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / October 18, 2021
Talking about "Squid Game" isn’t nearly as interesting as talking about talking about "Squid Game".
Review: The Many Saints of Newark
Review: The Many Saints of Newark
By Neel Lahiri / October 13, 2021
Despite not reaching the artistic heights of The Sopranos, The Many Saints of Newark is a more-than-competently made film.
The cast of "Everybody's Talking About Jamie" performs "Don't Even Know It."
Everybody Should Be Talking About Jamie
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / October 13, 2021
"Everybody’s Talking About Jamie" is a movie to musical to movie that actually works.
The cast of The Suicide Squad.
The Suicide Squad Reboots Franchise With Guts and Glory
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / October 10, 2021
Despite some pitfalls, James Gunn's "The Suicide Squad" reboot suggests a promising future for the franchise.
Miley Cyrus performs at Lollapalooza.
Lollapalooza Celebrates Its Return
By Veronica Chang and Kate Lu / October 10, 2021
Lollapalooza brought all sorts of people to Grant Park in celebration of live music's return.
The University of Chicago's Dance Program allows students to take unorthodox approaches to the study of dance, granting them unique experiences and opportunities.
UChicago’s Dance Program: Critique, Creativity, and Culture
By Wes Mahony / October 4, 2021
Julia Rhoads, director of dance within TAPS at UChicago, sits down with The Maroon to discuss the dance program’s unorthodox classes, COVID-19 practices, and hopes for the future.
John Mayer channels the '80s in his new album Sob Rock.
Sob Rock: Shitpost or Shit? The ’80s in a New Light
By Cynthia Huang / October 4, 2021
John Mayer wants to “make you feel joy” with his contradictorily named new album.
Xander Hastings, "Survivor" contestant and UChicago third year, aims to be a strong contestant on the show.
UChicago Takes Reality TV…Part II?!?
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / September 22, 2021
After this week’s premiere of "Survivor" Season 41, third-year Xander Hastings became the latest UChicago student to join the ranks of reality TV stardom.
We recommend Harper Café's mochas and muffins
Caffeine Around UChicago: For When Dining Hall Coffee Just Isn’t Enough
By Isabella Cisneros and Natalie Manley / September 13, 2021
Whether you are seeking a dose of caffeine for a midterm paper writing boost, a game of pool with your friends, or a chance to pursue your dream of becoming a barista, here are some student coffee shops and off-campus favorites for you to check out.
Dance RSOs to Get Your Footwork “En Pointe”
September 13, 2021
From K-pop to hip-hop and competitive to casual, there’s a dance group for everyone at UChicago.
"The Old Man and the Old Moon," UT's last show before the pandemic.
Intermission’s Finally Over: Theater Returns to Campus
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / September 13, 2021
Theater at UChicago is arguably the most accessible art form. With dozens of opportunities each quarter, there’s something for everyone.
You can sit in Al Capone's old booth in the Green Mill.
Arts and Culture Off Campus
By Gabi Garcia and Isabella Cisneros / September 13, 2021
Whether you're a music aficionado or a theater enthusiast, Chicago is the place to be.
Mansueto Library, AKA Erudite HQ in "Divergent."
UChicago on the Big (and Small) Screen: Films and TV Shows Set on Campus
By Veronica Chang / September 13, 2021
From "Divergent" to "Ferris Bueller's Day Off," here's a breakdown of all the movies and TV shows that have been filmed (or almost filmed) at UChicago.
From the Smart Museum to “The Ren,” Art Is Everywhere at UChicago
By Angélique Alexos / September 13, 2021
An overview of what to see and where to see it, UChicago art edition
The “Write” Way to Get Involved on Campus
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / September 13, 2021
An insider’s guide to UChicago’s diverse array of student publications.
The view from the audience at a Bells of Summer concert.
The Bells Are Back
By Sebastian Von Stauffenberg / August 15, 2021
The Bells of Summer concert series, a UChicago summer staple, finally returns.
Professor Bowden speaks before one of his ensemble performances.
From One Cat to Another, Happy Retirement Professor Bowden
By Sam Casale, Contributor / July 28, 2021
Sam Casale remembers and recounts the lasting impact of Professor Mwata Bowden as both a teacher and mentor as Bowden retires from the UChicago faculty after 27 years.
The producers decided that tall, fratty, ruthless Atkins would be funniest if catfishing as a five-foot-tall sorority girl.
UChicago Takes Reality TV? How Our Very Own Frat Bro Found His Fame
By Julia Holzman / July 12, 2021
UChicago third-year Jack Atkins sits down with "The Maroon" to talk about his season-long stint on Netflix’s "The Circle."
Holy Smokes
Holy Smokes
By Emma-Victoria Banos / July 12, 2021
Julia Fennell’s Original Sin is a tough pill to swallow wrapped in a sweet, appetizing coating.
Holy Smokes
Holy Smokes
By Emma-Victoria Banos / July 12, 2021
Julia Fennell’s Original Sin is a tough pill to swallow wrapped in a sweet, appetizing coating.
Photo Essay: Where the Bookworms Are
By Emma-Victoria Banos and Abigael Thinakaran / July 7, 2021
This spring quarter was the finale of a unique year. 2020-2021 may well have been the first and last full academic year that students at the College could take all of their classes remotely. These photos of students' study set-ups both on and off-campus should give us a better idea of where Maroons have been studying with all this freedom. Congratulations to everyone who finished the spring quarter strong! Keep up those good study habits.
An installation view of "youre muted" at the Reva and David Logan Center for the Arts.
In “youre muted,” Student Work Speaks Volumes
By Jad Dahshan / June 25, 2021
Despite a pandemic, a stay-at-home order, and the absence of traditional critiques, this year’s BA Thesis Exhbition delivers strongly once again.
Brandon Zang's "Welcome Back to My Channel" was livestreamed by University Theater from May 20-22.
“Welcome Back to My Channel” Searches for Reality in a Virtual World
By Kate Lu, Contributor / June 17, 2021
University of Chicago third-year Brandon Zang’s original play "Welcome Back to My Channel" confronts issues of societal expectations, identity, and how we influence and are influenced in a world dominated by social media.
I am not, but I wish I was.
The Transit-Oriented Teens Have UChicago Roots
By Yiwen Lu, Managing Editor / June 15, 2021
It may be a meme group, but New Urbanist Memes for Transit-Oriented Teens shows how memes can effectively communicate deep issues about urban planning and politics to the uninitiated.
Fern Brady: “Power & Chaos”
By Angelina Torre / June 14, 2021
Arts writer Angelina Torre sits down with Scottish comedian Fern Brady to discuss her career and her comedy special "Power and Chaos."
The cast of "In the Heights" celebrate the community of Washington Heights in "Carnaval Del Barrio".
Dreams Become Reality “In the Heights”
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / June 9, 2021
Arts Editor Veronica Chang sits down with the cast and crew of "In the Heights" to talk about representation, dreams, and reality.
"In the Heights" is a must-watch summer blockbuster.
A Slice of Life “In the Heights”
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / June 9, 2021
Lin-Manuel Miranda’s “In the Heights” gets a glossy makeover in a film that distinguishes itself from the original Broadway musical.
An installation view of "youre muted" at the Reva and David Logan Center for the Arts.
“youre muted”: BA Thesis Show Gives Voice to Student Artists
By Jad Dahshan / June 2, 2021
Despite the challenges of social distancing and limited in-person viewings, this year's Visual Arts B.A. Thesis Show serves up a treat for attendees.
Graduating third year Devin Haas, reflecting on his journey writing "It's Curtains."
Soundcloud Rappers, Serial Killers, and Song
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / June 2, 2021
Devin Haas concludes his time in UChicago’s TAPS Program with his take on the classic whodunnit "It’s Curtains."
Phoebe Bridgers performs virtually at Summer Breeze 2021.
Phoebe Bridgers Brings a Remote Intimacy to 2021’s First Summer Breeze Concert
By Jennifer Morse / May 30, 2021
Arts reporter Jennifer Morse gives us an inside look into the strangeness and intimacy of Phoebe Bridgers’s virtual Summer Breeze concert.
"The Handmaid's Tale" remains mired in the endless drama, slow-motion close-ups, red capes, and suffering of Gilead.
In Season 4 of “The Handmaid’s Tale”, Resistance Needs to Be More than One Person
By Jennifer Morse / May 30, 2021
The relentless cycle of torture and suffering in “The Handmaid’s Tale” has resulted in a season that’s torturous to watch.
Dr. Raychelle Burks, one of the three scientists featured in "Picture a Scientist", responds to the challenges faced by a woman of color in analytical chemistry.
“Picture a Scientist”: An Unveiling of the Reality of Women in STEM
By Layla Khazeni / May 30, 2021
Science’s substantial sexism comes to the forefront in a new documentary directed by Sharon Shattuck and Ian Cheney.
"Invincible" purposely sets up superhero tropes only to subvert them in creative and gory ways.
Think UChicago, Think! Why Aren’t You Watching Amazon’s New Show, “Invincible”?
By Timothy Lee / May 30, 2021
A fresh look at the superhero genre, animated series "Invincible" subverts overwrought superhero tropes with an eclectic mix of maturity, gore, and care.
Audiences experience Vincent van Gogh's work from within the art in the Immersive van Gogh Exhibit.
Let’s van Gogh to Chicago’s Immersive Exhibit
By Angelique Alexos, Deputy Arts Editor / May 24, 2021
Van Gogh’s greatest hits get a delightful multimedia remix in the Germania Club Building in Old Town.
Matt Lanter as George Hutchence in "Jupiter's Legacy."
Taking On The Mantle: Matt Lanter on “Jupiter’s Legacy”
By Kayla Martinez / May 23, 2021
Arts Reporter Kayla Martinez speaks with star Matt Lanter on the intricacies of portraying a superhero in Netflix’s newest superhero offering, “Jupiter’s Legacy.”
The cast of "Jupiter's Legacy."
In Conversation With The Cast of “Jupiter’s Legacy”
By Kayla Martinez / May 23, 2021
Arts reporter Kayla Martinez sits down with stars from Netflix’s newest show “Jupiter’s Legacy” and gets the scoop on the latest superhero show to grace our screens.
But what is a tomato slice?
Meditations on the One Dollar Tomato Slice
By Evan Williams / May 23, 2021
For what restaurant would offer a tomato slice for a dollar? For what customers do they intend to please, and for what reason do we find ourselves enthralled by the most mundane of mysteries?
Brainwave (Ben Daniels) and The Utopian (Josh Duhamel) in Netflix's "Jupiter's Legacy."
“Jupiter’s Legacy” Raises a Million Questions, but It Doesn’t Seem To Have the Answers
By Kayla Martinez / May 22, 2021
It may be a palatable alternative to the MCU monopoly of superhero movies, but “Jupiter’s Legacy” takes on far too much on its plate.
Brett Katz (@annumreport) amassed a huge following on TikTok for his retrospective view on the news from a year ago.
TikTok Famous… Twice: How UChicago’s Brett Katz Found his Internet Fame
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / May 22, 2021
Brett Katz, the mastermind behind @annumreport and the president of Burton Judson’s Chamberlin House sits down with The Maroon, to talk all things TikTok, Poll Party, and Frankie Jonas.
Michelle Zauner branches out with a powerful, poignant memoir.
“Crying in H Mart”: A Tale of Food, Love, and Identity
By Yiwen Lu, Managing Editor / May 22, 2021
Michelle Zauner, the musician who performs as Japanese Breakfast, talked about her new memoir at Chicago Humanities Festival.
The Ransom Notes in a Zoom rehearsal wearing miscellaneous hats.
“Better Now” Than Ever Before: UChicago’s Ransom Notes and Their Journey to the 2021 ICCA Finals
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / May 16, 2021
For the first time in their 24-year history, The Ransom Notes advanced to the final round of the International Competition of Collegiate A Cappella.
Daniel Kaluuya, Best Supporting Actor for his role of Fred Hampton in "Judas and the Black Messiah", thanked his parents as he collected his tiny gold statue.
A Chaotic, Historic Oscars
By Neel Lahiri / May 7, 2021
The latest Academy Awards ceremony had the opportunity to celebrate a wonderful, unexpected year of cinema…and fumbled the bag in spectacular fashion.
Nestor, Nestor, shining bright.
The (Not So) Secret Life of (a Very Specific Midway) Pet(s)
By Kayla Martinez / April 30, 2021
Arts reporter Kayla Martinez sits down with Devon Wenzel (@nestorthemidwaycat) to discuss childhood cat trauma, Modo the Rockefeller Chapel cat, and of course, all things Nestor.
Lil Rel Howery and Eric André in "Bad Trip".
“Bad Trip:” All the Highs, Lows, and Highs You’d Expect From an Eric André Road Trip Movie
By Lukian Kling / April 30, 2021
Eric André’s first feature film will catch you off guard. Whether that’s a good thing or a bad thing depends on you.
Kinda Sorta Brown's new season is out wherever you listen to podcasts.
The Team at “Kinda Sorta Brown” Want You To Learn Alongside Them
By Tomas Miriti Pacheco / April 25, 2021
The restored podcast takes an intersectional, community-based approach to current issues facing people of color.
The Feedback Loop of Rape Culture in Media
By Darya Foroohar / April 25, 2021
Media shapes our perceptions of society. If that media is consistently driving harmful and falsehood-ridden portrayals of sexual assault, where does that leave us?
Bong Joon Ho definitely understood the assignment.
If the Tiny Gold Statues Don’t Kiss, What’s Even the Point?
By Timothy Lee / April 21, 2021
Arts reporter Timothy Lee previews this year’s Best Picture nominations: Which films have rightfully earned their spot on this list?
"Fearless (Taylor's Version)" is the first of a slew of albums that Swift is re-recording.
“Fearless (Taylor’s Version)” (“The Maroon”’s Interpretation)
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / April 21, 2021
Listening to "Fearless (Taylor’s Version)" is at once exciting, nostalgic and bittersweet. Arts Editor Isabella Cisneros breaks down the re-recording of one of this century’s most iconic albums.
All three participants of the seminar were contributors to the recently published "National Security, Leaks, and Freedom of the Press."
For Your Eyes Only: The First Event in the Chicago Humanities Festival’s “Deep Dive: Speech” Series
By Eric Vanderwall / April 21, 2021
The first of three talks as part of the "Deep Dive: Speech" series in the Chicago Humanities Festival underdelivers and offers few new insights for its attendees.
With "Lilac," IU delivers strongly with an album about being in your twenties.
“LILAC”: Lyrics, Life, and Love
By Aazer Siddiqui / April 21, 2021
IU’s fifth studio album "LILAC" heralds the end of an era, weaving together thoughtful lyricism with infectious pop.
"Godzilla Vs. Kong" delivers all the epic monster matchup you could desire. And nothing else.
“Godzilla vs. Kong” Is Absurd and We Know Exactly Why
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / April 18, 2021
"Godzilla vs. Kong" scrambled to be anything and everything all at once and ended up being exactly what we expected it to be: nothing more than two monsters beating each other up.
Terri Lynne Hudson in Strawdog Theatre Company’s "How Do We Navigate Space?"
Living and Moving in the Pandemic
By Shivani Shukla / April 15, 2021
"How Do We Navigate Space?", Strawdog Theatre Company’s latest work, is a multimodal examination of movement and touch during the pandemic.
“Montero”: Coming-of-(Sexual)-Age Anthem
“Montero”: Coming-of-(Sexual)-Age Anthem
By Aashana Daru / April 14, 2021
You’ve heard of “dancing with the devil,” but in “Montero (Call Me By Your Name),” Lil Nas X dances *on* the Devil––and then kills him.
One of the many gems from the wonderful @makeupauchiman Twitter account.
UChicago Man Who Unironically Reads “The Maroon”
By Kayla Martinez / April 14, 2021
Weird. Wacky. Wholesome. Woeful. Worrying. These are some words that may apply to roughly half of this article’s readership.
Lil Rel Howery and Eric André in "Bad Trip".
“Comedy’s a Game of Millimeters”: Eric André Talks “Bad Trip”
By Lukian Kling / April 9, 2021
In conversation with The Maroon and other papers, "Bad Trip" costars Eric André, Lil Rel Howery, and Michaela Conlin discuss Chinese finger traps, a failed exorcism prank, and attending Robert McKee Seminars.
The Hyde Park Art Center.
Keeping An Eye Out For Emerging Talent From the Ground Floor
By Suzanna Murawski / April 8, 2021
“Ground Floor,” the Hyde Park Art Center’s biennial M.F.A. exhibition, succeeds once more in showcasing talented works by emerging Chicago artists in a unified way.
Timothy Edward Kane in Court Theatre's staging of "An Iliad."
“An Iliad”: All’s Fair In Theatre and War
By Anna Kuryla / April 7, 2021
Restaged for a virtual audience in light of the pandemic, "An Iliad" nevertheless succeeds in capturing and contextualizing the power and dynamism of Homer's epic text.
"WandaVision" promised so much, yet delivered little payoff for the expectant viewer.
What is “WandaVision,” If Not MCU-Commercialism Persevering?
By Liam Flanigan / April 7, 2021
Although "WandaVision" has its moments, it ultimately falls well short of being the heralded “visionary new age of television.”
Nari Ok, photographed here by Kayla Luu, as part of MODA's Winter 2021 Magazine.
MODA Makes Moves: After a Major Reimagining of their Magazine, MODA Continues to Uphold its Commitment to Creativity, Accessibility, and Diversity
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / April 7, 2021
In its Winter 2021 issue, MODA finds concrete footing in its renewed commitment to diversity and accessibility.
The Smart Museum featured the works of American artist, activist, and former UChicago student Erika Rothenberg in a recent web retrospective.
Politics and Pleasantries: A Smart Museum Discussion of Erika Rothenberg’s Satirical Greet-ing Cards
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / April 1, 2021
The Smart Museum features the work of Rothenberg, a former UChicago student, in its new discussion-based web series.
Britney Spears, pictured here in 2000, is the subject of a new documentary by "The New York Times Presents."
We’ve Never Really Known Britney Spears
By Jennifer Morse / March 31, 2021
"Framing Britney Spears" explores the series of contradictions that have long defined Spears’s career, driven by an objectifying media and inhumane conservatorship.
The cast of "Moxie", starring Hadley Robinson (bottom row, center) as Vivian and Alycia Pascual-Peña as Lucy (bottom row, second from right).
You’ve Got Moxie!
By Angelina Torre / March 26, 2021
In conversation with The Maroon and other papers, "Moxie" costars Alycia Pascual-Peña and Hadley Robinson talk “girl power,” representation, and what seeing diversity on screen means.
Vivian (Hadley Robinson), the heroine of "Moxie", holds up the titular magazine defiantly. Because she is defiant. And defies the patriarchy.
“Moxie” Is Big, But It Could Be Bigger
By Angelina Torre / March 26, 2021
"Moxie"’s got "Moxie!", but does it have much else going for it?
Nomadland's Fern (Frances McDormand) as she lives a year of her life as an American nomad: not "homeless", just "houseless".
“Nomadland”: A Gorgeous Trek Through the Wreckage of American Capitalism
By Neel Lahiri / March 19, 2021
Chloé Zhao’s "Nomadland" is a reminder of the human costs of capitalism, juxtaposed with the radical liberty of the nomadic lifestyle.
Julien Baker performing in New York in 2017.
“Little Oblivions”: All Gore, All Guts, All Glory
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / March 19, 2021
In her third record, indie singer-songwriter Julien Baker plumbs the depths of her self-loathing and grapples with faith, goodness, and love.
 
New Translation, Old Friend
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / March 19, 2021
UChicago Classics professor Shadi Bartsch’s new translation of the Aeneid reminds us of the fundamental questions at the heart of origin stories, and their continued relevance today.
Installation of Summer Skin with Zoe Avery Nelson and Judy Ledgerwood, part of Artists Run Chicago.
Artists Run Chicago: Supporting Artists Through COVID-19
By Suzanna Murawski / March 8, 2021
Arts writer Suzanna Murawski sits down with Allison Peters Quinn from the Hyde Park Arts Center to discuss the ways the Center has been supporting and making spaces for artists during the pandemic.
The fourth episode abandons the sitcom for the police procedural, taking place outside Wanda (Elizabeth Olsen) and Vision’s (Paul Bettany) constructed world.
“WandaVision” Review: Just Like Every Other Marvel Movie
By Liam Flanigan / March 3, 2021
Arts reporter Liam Flanigan assesses the next three episodes of Marvel’s half-strange, half-predictable "WandaVision."
Chicago's Love Letter to Claude Monet: "Monet and Chicago"
Chicago’s Love Letter to Claude Monet: “Monet and Chicago”
By Miles Franklin / March 3, 2021
The Art Institute brings to light the rich history between Claude Monet and the city of Chicago in a dazzling exhibition.
"I think the megaphone helps elevate it all. If screaming already puts you in an elevated state of mind, the megaphone just takes it up to an 11."
Kenjiro Lee’s “PRIMAL” Says It’s Okay to Scream
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / February 28, 2021
The Maroon sits down with alum Kenjiro Lee to talk virtual theater, an incessant need to let it all out in "PRIMAL," and a particular megaphone that just happened to be there.
2019-2020 Guild, the last photo the guild took before UChicago's closure.
Bells Bells Bells Bells Bells Bells Bells Bells
By Chi Ian (Jess) Ip / February 28, 2021
UChicago student carillonneur Chi Ian (Jess) Ip reflects on her time away from Rockefeller Chapel and the guild's gradual return to campus.
As you would expect from any #fake dating AU, "Bridgerton" becomes a #slow burn, #enemies-to-lovers fanfic.
“Bridgerton”: Belles, Ballrooms, Bodice-ripping, and Billie Eilish?
By Aashana Daru / February 26, 2021
And honestly, not much else. "Pride and Prejudice" meets "Gossip Girl," just set in London.
"And I love to talk about myself, so that’s super easy."
Meet Reese Klemm: The Newest Addition to UChicago’s Youtube Community
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / February 24, 2021
Second-Year Reese Klemm Brings Her Own Angles and “Pizzaz” to Her Channel.
In a moment in which euphoria seemed unable to exist without a sort of world-weary cynicism, Sophie’s unrelenting rejection of the idea that one’s music (and persona) was an elaborate prank.
Sophie: A Tribute to Tomorrow
By Seth Nguyen / February 23, 2021
Sophie’s music is an unapologetic euphoria, trailblazing in its alien soundscapes and ecstatic joy.
Yeun and Han provide excellent performances that expressively capture the couple’s rocky relationship, torn between providing stability and material comfort for their children and pursuing a dream of autonomy and self-sufficiency.
“Minari” Firmly Plants Itself Into the American Cinemascape
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / February 23, 2021
"Minari" tells a compelling, heartwrenching story of the American dream and finding Korean roots in the “land of opportunity.”
Cyberpunk 2077 falls short of its lofty expectations, stumbling over various bugs and blemishes.
Cyberpunk 2077: A Great Game Hiding Underneath a Buggy, Unpolished, Broken One
By Timothy Lee / February 20, 2021
Cyberpunk 2077's numerous bugs and strangely restrictive gameplay hinder its possibilities, resulting in a game that maybe should have been allowed to develop for a little longer.
"Promising Young Woman" uses religious imagery to portray Cassie (Carey Mulligan) as an avenging angel.
“Promising Young Woman” Is a Brutally Honest Take on Violent Sexism
By Jennifer Morse / February 14, 2021
What does this fantasy revenge-fantasy film, starring Carey Mulligan, reveal about our desire for vengeance against sexual assault in a society which offers us precious few avenues to pursue justice?
Halle Berry and Pierce Brosnan in Die Another Day, which I'm calling a rom-com because I can.
Kiss Kiss Fall (Virtually) in Love
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / February 11, 2021
For the 14th day of February, The Maroon gave to you: 14 movie recommendations and one editor’s rambling thoughts.
"Elegy," 2020. 11”x14”, oil on canvas.
The Art of Soumya Netrabile: Lush, Apolitical, Ambiguous
By Suzanna Murawski / February 8, 2021
“I like things a little messy,” Netrabile said. “I tend to step back from making things that are overt political statements or overt statements in general. I like vagueness—I like things to float between different meanings and not be easily definable.”
From left to right: Sha Frasier and Daniela Brigatti.
“Firebird” Spreads Its Wings: Daniela Brigatti and Sha Frasier on UChicago’s Up-and-Coming Music Magazine
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / February 8, 2021
Seeking to fill a void in UChicago’s existing student publications, "Firebird Magazine" will tackle all things music starting spring quarter.
COIN performs at their virtual concert. From left to right: Chase Lawrence, Matt Martin, Joe Memmel, Ryan Winnen.
The Surprising Reverie of COIN’s Virtual “Dreamland” Concert
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / February 3, 2021
Associate arts editor Isabella Cisneros reflects on her hesitancy to attend virtual concerts and on how she was touched by COIN’s Dreamland Tour in the new medium.
From left to right: Aldis Hodge (Jim Brown), Kingsley Ben-Adir (Malcolm X), Leslie Odom Jr. (Sam Cooke), and Eli Goree (Muhammad Ali) in "One Night in Miami."
From Stage to Screen: “One Night in Miami” Dazzles in Regina King’s Film Adaptation
By Alison Gill / February 3, 2021
Though ostensibly a historical film, “One Night in Miami” grapples with racism in a way that echoes conversations we are still having today.
Is Anybody Out There? The Totalizing Ideology of Social Media
By Eric Vanderwall / February 3, 2021
The lesson that emerges from the onslaught of social media is that totalizing ideologies kill, and that the human aversion to being proven mistaken means that extermination of the opposition tends to be chosen more frequently than conciliation or revision of the totalizing ideology.
"WandaVision" gets to be weird in a way no Marvel movie has ever been and thus is intriguing in a way no Marvel movie has ever been.
“WandaVision” Review: I Think I Know Where It’s Going, I Hope I Don’t
By Liam Flanigan / February 3, 2021
Arts reporter Liam Flanigan assesses the first three episodes of Marvel’s half-strange, half-predictable "WandaVision."
Alenda Chang, author of "Playing Nature: Ecology in Video Games," said that "Experimental Games" reflected on how the “post-industrial growth of neoliberalism and informatics informed the development of games.”
Patrick Jagoda Talks “Experimental Games: Critique, Play, and Design in the Age of Gamification”
By Emma-Victoria Banos / January 27, 2021
At an online event hosted by the Seminary Co-Op, University of Chicago Press, and 57th Street Books, gamers and game designers alike were given a peek into Patrick Jagoda’s motivations for writing his new book, "Experimental Games."
From left to right: Sabrina Carpenter, Joshua Bassett, and Olivia Rodrigo.
Disney Singers No One Talked About Until A Spicy Love Triangle
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / January 27, 2021
The releases of “driver’s license,” “Lie Lie Lie,” and “Skin” reveal a public fascination with the personal lives of celebrities and the lengths to which PR and marketing will go to push certain narratives.
What is interesting about the creation of the film is the screenwriter’s direct efforts to get rid of the book’s controversial elements rather than include them.
“Hillbilly Elegy”: A Source of Political Division?
By Sebastian Von Stauffenberg / January 27, 2021
Maroon Arts reviews the controversial new film based on J.D. Vance's best selling autobiography.
Mendes’s new documentary, "InWonder," was released on Netflix this past November.
Shawn Mendes’s “In Wonder” Is Not Very Wonderful
By Jennifer Morse / January 27, 2021
The new Netflix film fails to capture the magic of great pop star documentaries.
Court Theatre's ongoing Theatre and Thought Series focuses on Lorraine Hansberry's final play Les Blancs and its themes of racial injustice.
Court Theatre and Les Blancs: Africa, Abstraction, Constructing Identity
By Edwin Santos / January 24, 2021
Through Court Theatre’s Theatre & Thought seminar series, UChicago assistant professor Tina Post and Court Theatre research fellow Gabrielle Randle-Bent gave virtual audiences a primer on the complexity and prescience of "Les Blancs", Lorraine Hansberry’s last work.
Pixar's Soul gives viewers creativity, beauty and humor in its depiction of The Great Before.
Finding Your Soul with Pixar’s “Soul”
By Timothy Lee / January 24, 2021
Soul tells us that no matter what kinds of passions we have in life or what we believe to be “our purpose,” we always need to remember to take the time to cherish each moment in our lives.
Cast members of "Ratatouille: The TikTok Musical" belt out the rousing finale.
I KNEW I Smelled a Rat!: A Review of “Ratatouille: The TikTok Musical”
By Alina Kim and Gabi Garcia / January 19, 2021
The first musical of its kind, "Ratatouille: The TikTok Musical" sends a message that truly, anyone can theatre.
Jon Favreau patiently develops [The Mandalorian]’s characters by building out each of their personalities and motivations.
This is the Season Two Way: A Review of “The Mandalorian”
By Timothy Lee / January 14, 2021
Arts reporter Timmy Lee talks gorgeous cinematography, detailed worldbuilding, and Disney's obsession with nostalgia and deus ex machina in the second season of "The Mandalorian."
Georgianna James poses for MODA Magazine's newly released and notably reimagined online edition.
MODA Reimagined: How UChicago’s Premier Fashion Magazine Is Reinventing Itself in the Online World
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / January 12, 2021
No longer trying to be “the college version of Vogue,” MODA’s new online magazine and podcast aim to stray from industry standards.
In "Lil Boat 3.5", melodic mumbler Lil Yachty completes his transformation into the face of rap's next outlandish scene.
Look Out for That New Yachty
By Tomas Miriti Pacheco / January 12, 2021
Arts contributor Tomás Miriti Pacheco explores how the melodic mumbler Lil Yachty became the face of rap’s next outlandish scene.
After letting Poll Partiers vote on what they wanted to buy, Grace Gorant designed Poll Party merch (a hat, button, and sticker) in 2018, all of which sold out quickly.
Poll Party Is the COVID–Safe Rager of Your Dreams
By Julia Holzman / January 7, 2021
“I loved it, so I made everyone else in [Graham House] join,” UChicago Poll Party! co-creator Alice Breternitz explained, her polling passion palpable in her voice. “I’m in 14 different Poll Parties, and I love voting.”
Jennifer Carter (Jessica Rothe) and Solomon Chau (Harry Shum Jr.) enjoy a sunny walk with their dog in "All My Life".
I’ve Seen Movies Like “All My Life”
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / December 28, 2020
"All My Life" is a Thanksgiving movie: you cry a bit and think about love a bit while you watch, and then you move on and forget about it.
Co-stars Jessica Rothe and Harry Shum Jr. film the wedding scene of "All My Life", surrounded by cast and crew.
Lessons Learned, All My Life
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / December 28, 2020
In a conversation with The Maroon and other college papers, "All My Life" costars Jessica Rothe and Harry Shum Jr. discussed their recent film, lessons learned from COVID–19, and appreciating the little moments.
Harvard professor Gordon Teskey said about Harrison's book, “This is original scholarship and thought, immensely and accurately learned, impressive in every way."
Timothy Harrison: Coming To(gether) at the Seminary Co-Op
By Suzanna Murawski / December 27, 2020
Scholars from across the country come together to discuss assistant professor Timothy Harrison’s first book, "Coming To: Consciousness and Natality in Early Modern England," at a Seminary Co-Op event.
What happens when memory fails to pass from one generation to the next?
What is That?: A Review of Court Theatre’s “Leopoldstadt”
By Liam Flanigan / December 19, 2020
When a performance is distorted by these unfortunate conditions, by what standards should we judge it? Perhaps it is best to simply start with the basics. Then again, the basics of "Leopoldstadt" are anything but.
Released 42 years after the original Christmas special, "The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special" brings out your inner child: you’d be right to have a good feeling about this.
Holiday Films: The Joyful, Triumphant, and the Stink-Stank-Stunks
December 10, 2020
The Arts Editors wish everyone happy and safe holidays through our list of which holiday movies to stream and which disasters to strictly avoid.
“A lot of people feel trapped and a lot of people feel pressured to have an answer…. This album reflects that it is all right to just have questions and it is all right to feel scared, and it’s all right to feel confused."
Yungblud shares “Weird!” inspirations behind sophomore album
By Daisy Maslan / December 10, 2020
British rock star Yungblud shares with The Maroon the core anthem of his sophomore album "Weird!": “Our generation is changing shit…. Being yourself isn’t a fucking sin…. That’s what this album is about.”
"I think we are at risk of the First Amendment and free speech losing their moorings in society and culture."
Free Speech Advocate Suzanne Nossel Speaks at the Chicago Law School
By Natalie Manley, Contributor / December 3, 2020
Nossel, a former member of the Obama administration and the current CEO of PEN America, promotes an individualized approach to securing our own, and others' right to speak freely in the U.S. in her new book "Dare to Speak."
Beth (Anya Taylor-Joy) faces Vasily Borgov (Marcin Dorociński) in the USSR.
Checkmate, 2020: “The Queen’s Gambit” Means You Don’t Totally Suck
By Neel Lahiri and Veronica Chang / December 3, 2020
The genius of "The Queen’s Gambit" is its versatility. It tackles addiction without being an addiction drama, the drama of sport without being a sports drama, the emotions of a coming-of-age drama without falling prey to the clichés of the genre.
Featured: Unaccompanied Women.
Finding the Right Note: How UChicago’s A Cappella Groups are Making it Work
By Kayla Martinez / November 29, 2020
All of UChicago’s a cappella groups are up and running, jumping hurdle after hurdle to find new ways to create content and community.
"One of the things I noticed when I started doing more research on anime is that Japanese series never pass through giant cinema—they go through television, creating this much more interactive, viewer-oriented experience."
Conversations with Dr. Thomas Lamarre
By Audrey Scott / November 27, 2020
“In the past few years, anime has become more of a fan-led media, through fanfiction, amateur games and amateur manga.” Professor Thomas Lamarre sits down with The Maroon to discuss the Japanese animation industry.
When [Anne Hathaway] snarls at the mice/children she is so desperate to kill, you’re reminded of the fear that made "The Witches" so fun to read as a child.
Abracadabra, “The Witches” Doesn’t Need to Exist
By Liam Flanigan / November 27, 2020
Missing the eerie charm and unnerving imagery of its source material, "Roald Dahl’s The Witches" is like trying to shove a puzzle piece into a jigsaw while “solving” it.
The ever-controversial "Last of Us Part II" takes the second rank on arts reporter Timmy Lee's PS4 tier list.
The End of a Gaming Era: An Ode to PlayStation 4’s Greatest Triumphs
By Timothy Lee / November 23, 2020
In a final farewell to the iconic PlayStation 4 console, arts reporter Timmy Lee ranks the video games that defined an era.
UChicago Economics student Jeremy Huang (AB ’23) sat down with Professor Victor Lima to discuss the economics behind the popular mobile game.
Professor Lima Used Pokénomics! It’s Super Effective!
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / November 23, 2020
Professor Victor Lima sat down with the Chicago Economics Forum to discuss "Pokémon Go," battle game theory, and a rather massive collection of TMs—to be exact, 300 of each.
Over the course of "Freaky," Millie (Kathryn Newton) learns what it means to feel powerful and independent, and her transformation is the highlight of the film.
“Freaky” is a Story of Squandered Potential
By Zander Arnao / November 23, 2020
Strong performances save an otherwise disappointing horror-comedy in "Freaky."
The Maroon sat down with Kathryn Newton and Vince Vaughn to discuss their new film, "Freaky."
Body Swaps, High School and Serial Killers: Kathryn Newton and Vince Vaughn on “Freaky”
By Zander Arnao / November 23, 2020
The Maroon sits down with Kathryn Newton and Vince Vaughn to discuss their new film, "Freaky."
In author Vijay Prashad's own words, "Washington Bullets" was written for “young militants, because we [young activists] need armor” and “cannot afford to get amnesia” of the history of past repression.
Washington’s Bullet Wounds Have Not Healed
By Casey Mathur, Associate Arts Editor / November 23, 2020
Vijay Prashad (Ph.D. ’94) furiously puts the record of US intelligence agencies on trial in latest book "Washington Bullets," examining the long history of western covert military interventions and their lasting impacts today.
Alex Trebek delivered the same performance as always: a reserved (yet invariably witty) host who made each episode enjoyable to watch while never forgetting what made the show unique.
So Long, and Thanks for All the Hints
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / November 23, 2020
Arts reporter Zeff Worley reflects on the passing of longtime “Jeopardy!” host Alex Trebek.
Who hasn’t belted the chorus of Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas Is You?”
Holiday Tunes: The Tradition That Never Gets Old
By Angélique Alexos / November 23, 2020
Arts contributor Angélique Alexos defends the practice of blasting holiday tunes... the moment Halloween draws to a close.
There is no question about the outcome of the trial—that the bad guys will win this courtroom battle.
Aaron Sorkin’s Newest Film on Trial
By Alison Gill / November 12, 2020
"The Trial of the Chicago 7," out on Netflix, is quintessential Aaron Sorkin: snappy dialogue, timely political anxieties, near-complete erasure of female characters, and a healthy dose of moral liberalism.
“Blue Can be a Fall Color Too:” Student clad in blue walks through the main quad on a rainy Fall day.
Photo Essay: Fall Vibes 2020
By Angelina Torre, Chloe Zheng, Michael Han, Abigael Thinakaran, Gillian Gordon, Emma-Victoria Banos, Faradawn Yang, and Han Jiang / November 11, 2020
This quarter, our contributing photographers collaborated on a photo essay to express the vibes this Fall. The following is a collection of photos submitted by them that illustrate what being a student feels like right now.
Rockefeller Chapel reimagined through augmented reality in Jenny Holzer's (EX '74) new public art project.
Jenny Holzer’s “You Be My Ally” Walks a Core Less Common
By Suzanna Murawski / November 6, 2020
Jenny Holzer (EX ’74) negotiates the Core in her latest public art installation, which employs Augmented Reality to render campus buildings as larger-than-life.
Netflix's "The Social Dilemma" presents a social media infrastructure where all is not well, but points us toward an optimistic future.
“The Social Dilemma”—Or the First Step Towards a Brighter Future?
By Lukian Kling / November 6, 2020
Netflix’s “The Social Dilemma” presents an insidious social media landscape lined with overarching corporate interests—yet as Arts writer Lukian Kling argues, not all hope is lost.
As echoes of the past constantly spill over into the present, the film resigns itself to an almost stifling stagnation.
Chicago International Film Festival Part 3: The Long and the Short
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / November 2, 2020
In our 56th annual Chicago International Film Festival mini-series finale, Head Editor Veronica Chang previews three films, including the film equivalent of “lofi hip hop radio - beats to relax/study to” and an un-subtitled examination of isolation.
In "Dear Comrades!", characters are sensitively located within the Soviet ideological ecosystem and thus must negotiate their own terms with communism.
Chicago International Film Festival Part 2: Still Virtual, Still Great
By Zakir Jamal / November 2, 2020
In the second of our mini-series covering the Chicago International Film Festival, Zakir Jamal previews four films, including an intricate depiction of the Cinema Rex fire and a documentary about humanity’s relationship with meteorites.
"The Boys" is a violent, comedic, and weirdly fun time that everyone can find some kind of enjoyment in.
“The Boys” Are Back in Town
By Timothy Lee / November 2, 2020
Gratuitously violent and bizarrely hilarious, season two of "The Boys" is a return to the dark and revenge-obsessed world of main character Billy Butcher.
For what could seem like a meandering, directionless film, "Striding into the Wind" is highly entertaining.
Chicago International Film Festival Part 1: The 56th CIFF Goes Virtual
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / November 1, 2020
In the first of our Chicago International Film Festival miniseries, Associate Editor Adrian Rucker previews three films, including a documentary about the alliance between Zionists and American evangelicals and a coming-of-age road trip.
Whereas “some people consume news and others consume pop culture,” comedian Yamini Nambimadom seeks to combine the two with her podcast "Pillow Fight."
Yamini Nambimadom’s “Pillow Fight” Never a Snooze
By Angelina Torre / November 1, 2020
Yamini Nambimadom (A.B. ’20) sits down with The Maroon to discuss her podcast "Pillow Fight" and comedy in quarantine.
What happens when memory fails to pass from one generation to the next?
Memory, Art, and Performance: Three Perspectives on ”Leopoldstadt”
By Claire Potter / November 1, 2020
Three University of Chicago professors discuss the politics of Jewishness, memory, and survival in Tom Stoppard’s "Leopoldstadt," as part of an ongoing seminar series with Court Theatre.
As Enola (Millie Bobby Brown) deepens her search, she discovers troubling facts about her mother’s activities and uncovers a conspiracy to murder Tewkesbury.
Flawed Script Doesn’t Stop “Enola Holmes”’s Compelling Feminist Independence
By Zander Arnao / November 1, 2020
Netflix’s new offering provides a glimpse into the lesser known Holmes sibling.
Smiling even before the Zoom room filled, Mike Chen was excited to talk about his experiences as he patiently waited out Seoul’s two-week quarantine.
Strictly Dumpling Talks Food, Fitness, and Identity
By Jessica Choe / November 1, 2020
With such witty banter and open dialogue, Mike Chen truly made every fan in that Zoom room fall head-over-heels in love with him again.
A banner promoting Humanities Day 2010. Humanities Day was held virtually this year because of the ongoing pandemic. Photo by Hannah Hayes of Tableau, the magazine of the division of the humanities at UChicago.
Humanities Day 2020 Migrates to Zoom, Contemplates Crisis
By Jad Dahshan / October 26, 2020
In spite of the Zoom fatigue at the end of the day, Humanities Day 2020 offered a compelling series of lectures, performances, and readings of contemporary creative work.
Give me an average plot but raw, authentic characters, and I will enjoy the story and grant the subsequent books in the series a chance. I wish I hadn’t done so for "TSS."
“The Savior’s Sister” Needs Salvation
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / October 26, 2020
Indie author Jenna Moreci’s The Savior’s Sister delivers a fast-paced fantasy romance with believable characters, but suffers from uninspired and inconsistent plotlines.
Kirsten Johnson uses the camera to blur lines between reality and unreality, life and loss, mortality and immortality.
“Dick Johnson is Dead”…and Alive and Dying and Immortal
By Alison Gill / October 20, 2020
Unsurprisingly touching, Kirsten Johnson combines a deft cinematic touch with subversively humorous and daring conceits [in her documentary "Dick Johnson is Dead"].
Don't stalk to me or my sons ever again!
Veggie Tales: How Luke McKeever Turned Celery into Celebrity
By Kayla Martinez / October 16, 2020
“He’s been eating the vegetable plain since he was a kid and once went on a liver cleanse that largely featured celery, so he didn’t think twice about his choice, but the Internet certainly did."
Sofia Coppola’s latest film "On the Rocks" is not about new love.
“On the Rocks”: A Portrait of the Artist as a Beleaguered Housewife
By Neel Lahiri / October 14, 2020
In a raw depiction of a wilting marriage, Sofia Coppola’s "On the Rocks" stuns with its authenticity and sincerity.
Pictured (Left to Right): Players Tristan Bachmann, Arielle Roane, Melia Allan, and Liz Chen have a socially-distanced picnic.
Maybe the Real Chaotic Betrayal Was the Friends We Made Along the Way
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / October 14, 2020
Unintentionally ahead of their time, second-year Ryan Choi and his friends formed a creative spin on the classic party game Mafia, which adds new roles, spans weeks, and brings the UChicago community together in times of isolation.
"Breakout Room" does an incredible job of balancing goofy, timeless, and absurd bits like Joey’s with humor tied into this political moment.
The Best Breakout Room on Campus (and No, It Isn’t Run by the University)
By Kayla Martinez / October 12, 2020
UChicago students and Off-Off Campus members Jo Blankson, Liva Pierce, and Anne Lim put on a new Zoom-based comedy show that won’t leave you stranded in awkward silence.
Director Charlie Kaufman is very methodical and intelligent when it comes to his writing, and "I’m Thinking of Ending Things" is certainly no exception.
I’m Thinking That I’m Too Stupid to Understand “I’m Thinking of Ending Things”
By Timothy Lee / October 12, 2020
Charlie Kaufman out-Charlie Kaufman himself, extending his oeuvre of incisive, surreal psychological dramas in his latest offering with Netflix.
Maïmouna Doucouré’s directorial debut has stoked outsized media controversy for its sexualized portrayal of children.
“Cuties”: Addressing Its Controversy
By Sebastian Von Stauffenberg / October 5, 2020
As the audience follows the events of "Cuties" protagonist Amy’s life, we are forced to recognize the ever-growing pressure on young women—or, in this case, a group of prepubescent girls—to capitalize on their sexuality.
What were you doing in electrical? An awkward question if you are Yellow.
Red Is Lowkey Sus: A Political Reflection on “Among Us”
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / October 5, 2020
Now with over 86 million downloads, the violent nature of the gameplay in "Among Us" appeals to the cynicism and impatience of the frustrated and socially distanced in quarantine.
"Boys State," winner of the 2020 Sundance Film Festival’s Grand Jury Prize for Documentary, follows four ambitious participants of the 2018 conference from different geographic, political, and demographic backgrounds.
“Boys State”: If William Golding Had Cameras
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / September 28, 2020
Shot on location with a fleet of camera crews following the participants through the chaos of overachieving high school boys, "Boys State" is a prime example of cinema verité.
"I went into the studio and was like, ‘I can write something moody, but I want to write something that would make [Tatti] laugh.’"
Rozzi’s “Best Friend Song” an Anthemic Ballad to Friendship
By Saumya Jain, Associate Arts Editor / September 22, 2020
While quarantining in Long Island with her family and new niece, singer-songwriter Rozzi sat down with The Chicago Maroon to discuss her music, career, and recent single “Best Friend Song.”
What ensues from "Tenet"'s premise is a devastatingly complex espionage thriller, filled with suave, charismatic operatives and wicked, accented villains with nothing less than the fate of the world, of course, hanging in the balance.
“Tenet” Feels Like We’re Only Going Backwards
By Neel Lahiri / September 18, 2020
To a greater extent than any of Nolan’s past work, Tenet requires and benefits exponentially from multiple viewings. Whether a viewer will find this a feature or a bug will depend on them.
A secret agent and criminal face off on a train in "Much Commotion about Locomotion", written by Jacob Johnson and Gabriel Schneider.
The Curtain Rises: Theater on Campus
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / September 16, 2020
With dozens of performances each quarter, there’s something for everyone—tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or poem unlimited.
Research the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, criticize the lights out of the 2020 presidential candidates, or give your two cents on how pop culture involves and rejects politics with "The Gate."
Spilling Ink: Publications Around UChicago
By Maroon Arts / September 16, 2020
From fashion editorials and essays to poems and paintings, a myriad of campus publications are available for those who find their calling in writing.
Installation view of "Untitled (Ren Screen)" and "Untitled (05-07)."
Also on View: Visual Arts at UChicago
By Maroon Arts / September 16, 2020
Happy little accidents shine at UChicago—one remote way or another.
Pictured: Cobb Coffee Shop, one of the more eclectic stops on campus.
Caffeine Around UChicago: When Your Coffee Pot Isn’t Enough
By Alina Kim, Saumya Jain, and Isabella Cisneros / September 15, 2020
Whether you are seeking a dose of caffeine for a midterm paper writing boost, a game of pool with your friends, or pursuing your dream of becoming a barista, here are some student coffee shops and two off-campus favorites for you to check out.
-
What’s Poppin’ at UChicago: Dance RSOs to Get You Moving
By Maroon Arts / September 15, 2020
From ballet to hip-hop, swing dance to K-pop, the College community is bursting with opportunities for the kinetically inclined to stretch their feet.
Alisa Ramirez told Gay Times, "It just felt really important to tell our stories to their fullest, to be truthful and to put it in the music because so many young fans need it. It’s us doing our part to represent.”
With “Under My Influence,” The Aces Reshuffle Their Artistic Legacy
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / August 28, 2020
"Under My Influence"’s diverse musicality cements its authenticity with heavy bass, suave guitar riffs, and upbeat pop rhythms, and speaks to The Aces’ stirring assertion of power.
“I wrote this record during one of the darkest times of my life where I didn’t really plan for the next day,” Perry stated.
Katy Perry Wants You to SMILE
By Saumya Jain, Associate Arts Editor / August 24, 2020
[Katy Perry] uses this album as a beacon of hope and happiness in contrast to the current situation of the world and the troubles many people have been hit with.
Mirabella-Davis creates a confused environment, mashing together recognizable attributes of abuse and suppression to distinguish an oppressor-oppressed dynamic between husband and wife.
“Swallow,” “Midsommar,” and Women in Modern Horror
By Winifred Zhou / August 7, 2020
Male directors continue to butcher female characters in horror films like "Swallow" and "Midsommar."
Ellie gave Joel purpose as he starts to adopt some of her traits like making comments about how he’s “getting old,” but it also seems like Ellie has adopted a lot of Joel’s characteristics as well.
“The Last of Us Part II” Review: A Discussion on Selfishness, Violence, Perspective, and the LGBTQ+ Community
By Timothy Lee / July 31, 2020
"The Last of Us Part II" brings a sense of humanity to an otherwise violent video game with its astounding graphics; its controversial storyline, too, brings its players to reflect on the lesson of forgiveness.
Folklore was borne solely of Swift's imagination and has been released with the intention of sharing the world she has created and allowing us to interact with it.
Taylor Swift Takes Us to Another World with “Folklore”
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / July 31, 2020
Taylor Swift’s storytelling capabilities come to the forefront in Folklore, her newest album.
The revised libretto—along with the cast’s brilliant slapstick sense of humor—had the audience laughing hysterically.
Audience Goes Batty Over Northwestern Bienen’s Acerbically Funny “Die Fledermaus”
By Caleb Sussman, Contributor / July 31, 2020
Northwestern University's rendition of Bienen’s "Die Fledermaus" stuns audiences before the COVID-19 pandemic.
If one watches the film simply for its fear factor, it misses the mark by a long shot; yet, the impending conversation of forgiveness and conviction significantly redeems it.
“You Should Have Left”? Me Too.
By Emilie Blum / July 15, 2020
"You Should Have Left" struggles to elevate its mundane problems to real-world conversations, falling short of the gravitas of serious horror.
"I think there’s more pressure, maybe, on horror movies now to be a little bit more elevated and to have a little bit more to say, possibly, about the world or about people or about the human condition."
Kevin Bacon Talks Shop on Horror
By Emilie Blum / July 14, 2020
Actor Kevin Bacon dives into the influences and experiences behind his newest project, You Should Have Left, while reflecting on his career and past projects in horror.
While not opposed to reforms that improve the quality of life for incarcerated people, Davis suggests that too much emphasis on reform can naturalize the prison.
Prisons Are Obsolete
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / July 8, 2020
Angela Davis’s seminal work on prison abolition remains just as poignant in our present political moment as it was when it first came out in 2003.
“[W]hite fragility is a state in which even a minimum amount of racial stress in the habitus [a person’s internalized awareness of their status] becomes intolerable, triggering a range of defensive moves.”
From a White Perspective, “White Fragility” is Fragile
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / June 26, 2020
While at times insightful, "White Fragility"’s deceivingly simple argument is tinged by the tone of a white savior.
“There’s this certain vibe to Staten Island that’s not like the other boroughs, not like anywhere else in the country.”
Judd Apatow and the Everyday Appeal of Staten Island
By Timothy Lee / June 26, 2020
Judd Apatow sits down with The Maroon to talk "Staten Island," working with Pete Davidson, and the appeal of lost souls in everyday life.
While "The King of Staten Island" has an unexpectedly dark sense of humor and can be a bit depressing at times, the film never shies away from its upbeat, emotional moments.
“The King of Staten Island” Review: For Pete Davidson, It’s Not Easy Being a King
By Timothy Lee / June 23, 2020
"The King of Staten Island" is Judd Apatow's latest film, balancing humor with heavier topics of family death, depression, and grief.
Artists from around the United States have shown their support for Black Lives Matter; we can lend a hand along with them.
Art Around for Black Lives Matter
June 19, 2020
A (nowhere near exhaustive) list of ways the UChicago community can support Black Lives Matter, ranging from YouTube videos to Black-owned local businesses to student artist commissions.
Statement from the Arts Editors: Black Lives Matter.
June 19, 2020
The Arts Editors reaffirm their support for the Black Lives Matter movement.
Leah Lewis as Ellie Chu (left) and Alexxis Lemire as Aster Flores in "The Half of It."
A Queer Film That Doesn’t Do Things by Halves
By Chong An Ong and Connie Guo / June 7, 2020
Netflix’s "The Half of It" stumbles here and there, but a unique aesthetic style and loveable characters ultimately make for an entertaining coming-of-age story.
Statement from the Editors
June 3, 2020
The Arts Editors reaffirm their mission amid the events of the past weekend.
Our final look at the Skywalker Saga, the Siege of Mandalore will breathe bloodmist, yet it is not so morbid as to push away its younger audience.
“Clone Wars”: The Siege of Mandalore Is Our Binary Sunset
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / June 2, 2020
In the second of two "Star Wars: The Clone Wars" reviews, we witness the chilling end of the Siege of Mandalore arc and say our goodbyes to the Skywalker Saga.
An album about the intricacies of human existence similarly titled to Sontag’s Notes on “Camp”, this album is an essay for the masses, one that narrates the emotions of love, loss, and everything in between.
The 1975’s “Notes on a Conditional Form”: A Remarkably Timely New Album
By Emilie Blum / June 2, 2020
The 1975’s long-awaited new album examines the intricacies of human existence in many musical genres.
Noah Cyrus's latest EP "The End of Everything" is a self-conscious, introspective, and mature venture that sets out to publicly cement the identity of its creator.
Noah Cyrus Breaks Free in “The End of Everything”
By Cynthia Huang / June 1, 2020
The 1975’s new album, "Notes on a Conditional Form," is ambitious in both magnitude and scope; the band succeeds in delivering their truest record yet.
The 1975 comes out with a record at once ambitious and timely.
Notes on the 1975’s “Notes”
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / June 1, 2020
The 1975’s new album, "Notes on a Conditional Form," is ambitious in both magnitude and scope; the band succeeds in delivering their truest record yet.
In so many ways, "The Lovebirds" strikes as the uninspired byproduct of some algorithm-generated streaming behemoth.
Despite Its Stars, “The Lovebirds” Fails to Take Flight
By Alison Gill / June 1, 2020
While actors Issa Rae and Kumail Nanjiani possess a dynamism and universal appeal rarely found in their peers today, their potential in "The Lovebirds" is cut short by underwhelming writing and bland directing.
Ramin Djawadi switches it up yet again in the soundtrack for the new season of Westworld.
Master of Momentum: Ramin Djawadi’s “Westworld: Season 3”
By Brinda Rao / May 28, 2020
Djawadi strikes yet again in the soundtrack for "Westworld: Season 3" with an otherworldly, subversive offering.
As I grow up and continue to rewatch Avatar, I’ve begun to truly appreciate how it deftly balances lighthearted hijinks with rich and emotional storytelling.
“That’s Rough, Buddy”: A Love Letter to “Avatar: The Last Airbender”
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / May 25, 2020
When the world needed him most, he vanished—fifteen years after it began airing, "Avatar: The Last Airbender" finally returns on Netflix U.S.
Marmo displays a dizzying array of his capabilities as an actor throughout the show, even if it might have ultimately been a detriment to the understanding of the story.
Lenny Bruce: Comedy and Censorship
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / May 25, 2020
At times losing its footing, Ronnie Marmo’s one-man show "I’m Not A Comedian…I’m Lenny Bruce" delves into the life of Lenny Bruce, and his fight against censorship.
For Zara Bamford, violence in video games is a psychological tool that acclimates average
people to violence, and for the military, this serves as a perfect recruitment tool.
Zara Bamford: What the Military Doesn’t Want You to Know About Video Games
By Timothy Lee / May 25, 2020
The Maroon sits down with fourth-year Zara Bamford to discuss her thesis, which argues that the U.S. military utilizes violent video games to recruit future soldiers and desensitize them to the horrors of warfare.
Emotion is at the forefront of each track of "Petals for Armor," described explicitly as a reflection of Hayley Williams’s thoughts and the events she has experienced, guiding us through their inherent complexities.
“Petals for Armor”: Finding Strength in Vulnerability
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / May 23, 2020
Hayley Williams’s first solo album is a guide to healing and self-love, equally profound and enjoyable.
The story arcs before the Siege of Mandalore might have been meant to be expendable, but not to me...partially.
Oh, My Dear Clone Wars. How I’ve Missed You!
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / May 21, 2020
In the first of two "Star Wars: The Clone Wars" reviews, we take a closer look into the reintroduction of the animated galaxy far, far away and its half-brilliant, half-disappointing buildup to the Siege of Mandalore.
Finley (Jacqueline Toboni) and Micah (Leo Sheng) in The L Word: Generation Q.
Yo, That’s Gay…and That’s the Point
By Kayla Martinez / May 18, 2020
Watching "The L Word: Generation Q" hasn’t changed my life; but it’s reminded me there are spaces where my friends and I can belong—spaces where we can feel safe being seen.
Elliot Kahn holds aloft his homemade GameCube - now abandoned in favor of a (store-bought) Nintendo Switch.
MAAD Man Set to Graduate in June Tells All
By Julia Holzman / May 18, 2020
Elliot Kahn sits down with The Maroon to discuss his time with the MAAD minor, the MADD Center, and the mad world of video games.
Ariel Salmon (A.B. '20) walks us through her thesis on Black Conservatism on social media, as well as her experience as Snell's virtual RA.
Ariel Salmon: Reflections on the Rise of Digital Media
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / May 18, 2020
Ariel Salmon sits down with The Maroon to discuss the process of the finalization of her thesis on Black conservatism, and how Snell manages to keep their house culture alive amid quarantine.
Claire Schultz sends a thank you to University Theater: a pillar of comfort, belonging, challenge, and confidence all in one.
A Parting Ode to University Theater
By Claire Schultz / May 18, 2020
For arts reporter Claire Schultz, University Theater is the perfect middle to a journey through UChicago that offered her a vague exposition and resolution.
Listen to Purple Corporation's maiden EP - it's worth the "psychedelectric' ride.
Purple Corporation’s Psychedelectric EP: A Relief in Uncertain Times
By Connor Tree / May 11, 2020
Purple Corporation’s debut EP is a tribute to their psychedelic rock roots, with an added undertone of electronica, or as they describe it, “psychedelectric.”
Maitreyi Ramakrishnan as Devi in Netflix's latest teen rom-com.
“Never Have I Ever” Gets Representation Right
By Manya Bharadwaj / May 11, 2020
Netflix and Mindy Kaling’s new sitcom "Never Have I Ever" brings some much needed representation of the Indian-American experience into the world of American television.
Jagger, Richards, and Co. still rolling on after all these years.
The Odd Thing About “Living in a Ghost Town”
By Timothy Lee / May 11, 2020
At first glance just another song about the COVID-19 pandemic, The Rolling Stones’ new release “Living in a Ghost Town” poignantly reflects the loneliness of living in an empty world.
This villager is definitely practicing social distancing - we appreciate that.
“Animal Crossing: New Horizons” Is Whatever Hobby You Want It to Be
By Warren Wagner / May 5, 2020
"Animal Crossing" provides apt comfort and reassurance in an unquiet time.
Even though Logan Center hosts no Arts Core students this quarter, students and professors improvise to retain the UChicago arts culture from their own homes.
Amid Quarantine, the Arts Core Gets Creative
By Saumya Jain, Associate Arts Editor / May 5, 2020
Arts reporter Saumya Jain looks at how the Arts Core classes have been affected by the shift to an online quarter, and how students and professors alike are making the best out of the situation.
In the year of video game remakes, "New Horizons" stands out as an adorable return to "Animal Crossing."
A Few Clouds Disrupt the Bright Sky that is “Animal Crossing: New Horizons”
By Julian Stuart-Burns / May 2, 2020
"Animal Crossing: New Horizons" offers whimsical escape in these troubled times, and a significant upgrade from talking to your actual neighbors.
"Middleditch and Schwartz" is a fresh breath of air in the world of improv, accidental slip-ups and all.
Yes, and Scene! Long-Form Improv for the Streaming Age
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / May 2, 2020
With creative wit and the occasional blunder, "Middleditch and Schwartz" is a welcome add to the improv world.
The long awaited remake of the popular "Final Fantasy VII" boasts amazing graphics, but drags in terms of narrative.
“Final Fantasy VII Remake”: No End to Phenomenal Graphics or Narrative Lull
By Connor Tree / May 2, 2020
While it boasts incredible gameplay and aesthetic, "Final Fantasy VII Remake" falters in offering veteran players a sound, satisfying game narrative.
"Chopped" disappoints seasoned audiences with obvious bias toward the judges, leaving little room for talent, creativity, or even passion to shine through.
“Chopped”: Beat the Judge or Glorify the Judge?
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / April 27, 2020
The new series of "Chopped" is marred by an inconsistency of judging standards and decisions throughout.
The ineffable, wholesome Bon Appétit Test Kitchen crew, pre-isolation.
The Bon Appétit Test Kitchen, Food, and My Hometown: Cooking During Quarantine
By Anna Kuryla / April 24, 2020
Bon Appétit Test Kitchen inspires its everyday watchers to turn their own kitchens into a restaurant, optimistically encouraging its audience to find consistency in a time of uncertainty.
The University's resident carillonneur Joey Brink features heavily on "Ripple Effects."
A Ringing Endorsement of “Ripple Effects”
By Gabby Bayness, Copy Chief / April 20, 2020
The Maroon sits down with Joey Brink to discuss "Ripple Effects," a collaborative album that traverses and redefines conventional classical music.
The evergreen Bob Dylan finally lands his first Billboard No. 1 single.
Bob Dylan in 17 Minutes, 60 Years, and Gen Z’s Seconds-Long Attention Span
By Timothy Lee / April 20, 2020
Bob Dylan capitalizes on our period of self-isolation to drop his longest song yet, reflecting on the trajectories of both America and his career over the last 60 years.
We assure you this show is well worth the watch.
“Beastars”: The Bewildering Escape That Was, In Fact, Not Escape
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / April 20, 2020
Netflix hit "Beastars" appears to be a bizarre distraction from our strange quarantine, but it serves as another reminder of the grim reality that humanity faces day by day.
Writers convene for a Zoom meeting during Radio[24].
Radio[24]: a Socially-Distanced Theater[24]
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / April 20, 2020
Arts reporter Gabi Garcia reflects on the very first iteration of Radio[24] and the quirks and travails of socially distanced art.
Kerry Washington and Reese Witherspoon lend formidable acting nous to 'Little Fires Everywhere.'
Motherhood Sparks Drama in “Little Fires Everywhere”
By Alison Gill / April 17, 2020
Starring Reese Witherspoon as Elena Richardson, Hulu’s new limited series "Little Fires Everywhere" returns to the familiar and well-trodden trope of the problem solver, yet falters in its execution.
Tzi Ma and Christine Ko share a quiet moment in Alan Yang's "Tigertail," which flatters to deceive.
Immigrant Narrative Choked By Its Own Tigertail
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / April 17, 2020
As the story stumbled through moments that should have made me laugh or cry or even smile, I was unmoved—I couldn’t bring myself to care.
A horrible man and his cat.
“Tiger King”: Why Are We Drawn to Awful People on Screen?
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / April 13, 2020
Netflix’s latest viral hit underscores our gleeful penchant for media that reveals the very worst of human character.
Love is blind if you fit within conventional heterosexual norms of attractiveness.
“Love Is Blind” Is Blind
By Lexi Franciszkowicz, Contributor / April 13, 2020
“Love Is Blind” may have boasted a subversion of typical reality shows, but instead is inherently a perpetuation of conventional gender dynamics, romance, and success.
PHX Gallery is a must-see for people whose love of Comme des Garçons reaches deeper than PLAY T-shirts and Converse collaborations.
PHX Gallery, Where Exception Becomes Convention
By Miles Franklin / April 8, 2020
PHX Gallery, one of Chicago’s best kept secrets, houses an eclectic mix of post-modernist furniture, objets d’art, and vintage Comme des Garçons fashion.
UChicago fourth year Hope Gundlah dazzles at the CMTF in her performance for "Moby Dick - The Musical."
UChicago Students, Alumna Appear in the Chicago Musical Theatre Festival
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / April 8, 2020
While UChicago is not a traditional conservatory, its students and alumni solidify its grounding in the theater world.
Building from electronica, funk, hip-hop, and R&B, 3.15.20is a monumental effort that epitomizes the polymath’s decade of musical evolution. By its conclusion, Gambino comes close to achieving that goal.
Childish Gambino’s 3.15.20—What Makes an Album of the Year?
By Connor Tree / April 1, 2020
In what may well be the last record of the Childish Gambino project, Donald Glover delves deep into an experimental sound.
Sloan Struble and his band played at Shubas Tavern
A Reprieve From Chaos With Dayglow
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / April 1, 2020
In one of Chicago's final concerts before closures, Dayglow turned Shubas Tavern into a respite from the oncoming chaos with their exhilarating stage presence.
-
Keep the Ship Moving: Putting on a Show During a Pandemic
By Kenjiro Lee / April 1, 2020
Fourth-year Kenjiro Lee, director of The Old Man and the Old Moon, reflects on persevering with production amid the panic of the coronavirus.
Ceremony brought 20% of the show to Thalia Hall - what about the other 80%?
The Other 80 Percent—What Makes a Punk Show?
By Charles Ewell, Contributor / March 15, 2020
Despite a ferocious set, Ceremony’s set at Thalia Hall fell flat because of an underwhelming audience.
Eric Nam's electrifying concert in Chicago reflected on nostalgia and love, traversing cultural borders and embracing universality.
Eric Nam Comes Through the Vic—Don’t Run Away
By Jessica Choe / March 15, 2020
Eric Nam performed his debut English album with his signature enthusiasm, asserting a universal message of love, loss, and nostalgia.
Apsáalooke Women and Warriors
By Jeremy Lindenfeld / March 14, 2020
An exhibition at the Neubauer Collegium for Culture and Society highlighted the art and culture of the Apsáalooke people.
30 contemporary immigrant and refugee writers tell their unique stories in "My America," on view through May 2021 the American Writers Museum.
My America: Immigrant and Refugee Writers Today
By Lexi Franciszkowicz, Contributor / March 6, 2020
The latest exhibition at the American Writers Museum discusses the challenges of immigration experiences, focusing particularly on discovering and embracing identity.
The band was self-aware of the set’s silly layout, goofing around with audience members and each other as the night progressed.
Saint Motel: Cheesy, Disjointed Fun
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / March 6, 2020
Despite technical difficulties and cheesy set layouts, Saint Motel thrilled their audience with an overflowing, whimsical energy at the Vic.
"Occam Ocean" pulses, morphs, and falters upon the same droning pitch between different instruments, positions, and alterations.
The Paradox of Control in “Occam Ocean”
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / March 6, 2020
Éliane Radigue’s experimental composition, performed last week at Bond Chapel, demonstrates the paradoxical difficulty of exerting absolute control over musical performance.
Aaron Diehl builds the bridge between jazz and baroque in a scintillating talk and performance.
Aaron Diehl Talks Jazz and Baroque
By Isaac Krakowka / March 3, 2020
Jazz pianist Aaron Diehl discusses jazz and baroque music, as well as his latest record, at the Logan Center.
COIN strides into magical form with "Dreamland."
Youuu Should Listen to Coin’s Newest Album
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / March 3, 2020
Coin reinvents their sound but loses none of the magic in “Dreamland.”
Xu Bing's remarkable "1st Class" installation is made out entirely of 500,000 cigarette butts.
When Subject Matter Is Matter Itself
By Jad Dahshan / March 3, 2020
At the Smart Museum’s biggest exhibition to date, histories are rewritten and new theoretical possibilities opened.
Don't be fooled by the puppy eyes - Toothless represents American hegemony over nuclear proliferation.
The Self-Defeating Irony of Progressive Animation
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / March 3, 2020
In an entertaining iteration of the Hannah Frank Memorial Lecture Series, Mihaela Mihailova tears into animation's unfortunate tendency to fall into an ironic tension between progressivism and conservatism.
Somebody Once Told Me the UChicago Law School Had A Musical, So I Rolled with It
By Alexis Florence / February 28, 2020
Law school students prove to be a bunch of ogre-achievers in "The University of Shrek-ago: The Law School Musical."
Janelle Villas, Ryan Tang and Vicky Snyder in "Baked! The Musical," part of
the 6th annual Chicago Musical Theatre Festival.
“Baked! The Musical:” Harvard, Weed, and Life Lessons
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / February 28, 2020
he second article of our Chicago Musical Theater Festival reviews Baked! The Musical, which hits all its high points with ease.
-
The Jungle Giants Is On Fire—No, Seriously
By Emilie Blum / February 28, 2020
Read our exclusive coverage and interview with Australian indie-pop band The Jungle Giants.
Bill and the Belles performing at Mandel Hall
Sixty Years of Folking Around
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / February 28, 2020
The Folk Festival marks its diamond jubilee with a weekend of rousing performances, workshops, and history.
Carrie Coon (Agnes White) and Namir Smallwood (Peter Evans) in Steppenwolf’s production of "Bug."
“Bug” Should Be Watched as Closely as the Surveillence State Is Watching You
By Anna Aguiar Kosicki / February 26, 2020
Written more than 20 years ago, Bug seems especially current and poignant in its current staging at the Steppenwolf.
-
“Wages of Work” Goes Beyond Depiction
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / February 25, 2020
Next up in a series of reviews of this quarter’s We Tell project, a look at “Wages of Work," a collection of films focusing on labor issues.
-
Living and Obsessing in the Time of Tame Impala
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / February 25, 2020
“The Slow Rush,” Tame Impala’s much-awaited follow-up to “Currents,” cements his position as perhaps one of the best producers alive, and makes the five years well worth the wait for fans old and new.
-
Maybe the Real Godot Was the Friends We Made While We Waited
By Kenjiro Lee / February 25, 2020
Under Robert Carhuayo’s direction, UT's production of the Samuel Beckett's timeless show was surprisingly terrifying, even as nothing happened.
On Friday afternoon, learn about how some of your favorite computer animated films contain "reactionary undercurrents and unearthing fissures and fault lines in their ideological landscapes."
Arting Around, 8th Week Edition
February 25, 2020
A few suggestions for how to satisfy your art and culture cravings this week.
Petal Occasional Table by Richard Shultz for Knoll Associates
The Bauhaus Movement’s Complicated Chicago Story
By Miles Franklin / February 24, 2020
The Art Institute’s centenary exhibit on the Bauhaus provides a refreshingly critical retrospective on the movement’s complicated relationship with Chicago.
Peter Ruger and Nate Hall in "Moby Dick – A Musical," part of the 6th
annual Chicago Musical Theatre Festival.
Chasing a White Whale: “Moby Dick” at the Chicago Musical Theatre Festival
By Gabi Garcia, Arts Editor / February 24, 2020
In the first article of our extended coverage on the Chicago Musical Theater Festival, Moby Dick fails to update its classic source material in a disjointed production.
-
Performing the “blk” Experience with avery r. young
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / February 21, 2020
A combination of poetry reading, dance recital, and blues jam session all rolled into one, young’s performance was decidedly unlike anything else seen at the Co-op before.
-
The Newberry Consort’s “Isabella d’Este” Pays Homage to a Renaissance Woman
By Alex Oreskes / February 21, 2020
The second piece of the Newberry Consort’s “Year of the Woman” season raises the bar dramatically.
Margot Robbie in "Birds of Prey: And the Fantabulous Emancipation of Harley Quinn"
“Birds of Prey”: Chaotic and Totally Unapologetic
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / February 18, 2020
"Birds of Prey" is a rollercoaster of action scenes, going from one beautifully choreographed fight to the next.
-
Arting Around, Cold Edition
February 18, 2020
Don't sit around the Reg waiting for Godot this week. Go see it, and so much more, for yourself!
-
Why They Tell the Story and Why We Should Listen
By Isabella Cisneros, Arts Editor / February 14, 2020
rom an original set design to incisive sociopolitical commentary, writer Isabella Cisneros makes the case to watch "Once on This Island" while you still can.
Assaf Evron, "Untitled (Sodom and Gomorrah)."
How to Conceal Colonialism at the MCA
By Jad Dahshan / February 14, 2020
At the MCA, Assaf Evron conceals colonial narratives by erasing the sociopolitical and material significance encoded in Jerusalem stone.
-
Weekend of Workshops: A Call for UT to Workshop Itself
By Connor Tree / February 14, 2020
“This auteur environment [of the Weekend of Workshops] ultimately cultivates a jarring disconnect between the performers and the audience.”
-
Get Caught in “The Mousetrap” While You Still Can
By Lynn Chong / February 14, 2020
In the Court Theatre's production of "The Mousetrap," the true showstoppers are Sean Graney's direction and Arnel Sancianco's scenic design.
-
Breaking: King Princess Is Annoying, but Her Concert Was Fun Anyway
By Julia Holzman / February 11, 2020
King Princess may have scaled up from her Juul-mooching days, but her voice and performance remain as entertaining as ever.
Pianist Paul Lewis played Beethoven's first and fourth piano concertos with the CSO last week.
Breathing Life into a Polarized Beethoven Program
By Julian Stuart-Burns / February 10, 2020
Last week, pianist Paul Lewis warmed up the CSO for what's bound to be a Beethoven-packed year
Saoirse Ronan and Timothée Chalamet in Greta Gerwig's adaptation of "Little Women"
No Happily Ever After in Gerwig’s “Little Women”
By Alex Kong / February 9, 2020
With “Little Women,” Gerwig’s continues her obsession with disappointment.
Saoirse Ronan and Timothée Chalamet in Greta Gerwig's adaptation of "Little Women"
Sisterly Love Prevails in Little Women
By Jessica Choe / February 9, 2020
Greta Gerwig’s adaptation of “Little Women” reminds the viewer that the victories and frustrations of sisterhood are immortal.
Madison Cunningham at Thalia Hall
Cunningham, Calexico, Iron and Wine.
By Jeremy Lindenfeld / February 6, 2020
Last Thursday, up-and-coming singer-songwriter Madison Cunningham exhibited her incredible talent alongside established artists Iron & Wine and Calexico.
-
Arting Around: Week 5
February 5, 2020
While preparing your list of Academy Award Hot Takes, why not look around in the world of entertainment?
--
Arting Around, Week 5
February 4, 2020
How to satisfy your artsy cravings this week
"Ever in the Glades" tells a story of teenagers who return home to parents who have failed them, conjuring laughs while also bringing the gravity of sympathetic silence.
In the Florida Everglades, the Kids Aren’t Alright
By Kenjiro Lee / February 4, 2020
Under the direction of Tiffany Trent, University Theater masterfully demonstrates the strained family dynamics of "Ever in the Glades," with many actors portraying multiple characters in the span of mere minutes.
--
Director Bernardo Ruiz Talks Autonomy, in the Classroom and on Camera
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / January 29, 2020
As part of the Cinema 53 film and discussion series, Harper Theater screened Bernardo Ruiz's documentary "The Graduates/Los Graduados."
A page from Drnaso's graphic novel "Sabrina."
Nick Drnaso: From Antique Stores to Man Booker Prize
By Lexi Franciszkowicz, Contributor / January 29, 2020
Cartoonist Nick Drnaso, creator of "Sabrina," the first graphic novel to be nominated for a Booker Prize.
--
Mura Masa, the Master of Musing over Memories
By Lucas Du / January 29, 2020
With “R.Y.C,” Mura Masa pivots sharply from the danceable, omnivorous pop of his debut album to introspective, guitar-driven indie rock.
-
Arting Around, Week 4 Edition
January 29, 2020
Whether week 4 has you feeling like an activist or a couch potato, the arts editors have you covered with a wide range of events across campus and beyond.
Jeyifous and Reese stand together at the opening of "S is for Soul Sister."
“S is for Soul Sister” Remembers a Forgotten Alphabet
By Alexis Florence / January 24, 2020
Molecular biologist and photographer Okunola Jeyifous rediscovers the story and people behind the “Black ABC’s” flashcards with the UChicago Arts incubator staff in his exhibition "S is for Soul Sister" on display now until March 20.
Standing in front of an enigmatic projection, Polachek proved she could dance.
Audience Shouts “Caroline Shut Up” at Caroline Polachek Concert
By Jade Yan / January 24, 2020
At her recent Lincoln Hall concert, the audience got to know the artist behind "Door."
"In the waiting room" is on view through March 29th at the Renaissance Society.
Walking Around In the Waiting Room
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / January 24, 2020
Now on view at the Renaissance Society, Silke Otto-Knapp's huge canvases are at once imposing, while inviting the viewer into a dreamscape of human figures and natural bodies.
Consistency and cohesiveness are signature to Jenkins’s style, allowing for the layered narratives often found in his tracks.
Mick Jenkins Continues to Impress with “The Circus”
By Tomas Miriti Pacheco / January 21, 2020
Mick Jenkins delivers a cohesive, flowing story with his new EP "The Circus."
For "Inside Women Inside," artwork made by the incarcerated women is interspersed with the women describing their experiences with beatings, miscarriages, inadequate nutrition, unsanitary living conditions, and general institutionalized mistreatment.
We Tell: Fifty Years of Participatory Community Media – States of Violence
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / January 21, 2020
"We Tell: Fifty Years of Participatory Community Media" uses community video projects as a platform for political activism in regards to social inequality.
Instead of digging deeply into any of the struggles that Lindiwe or her boyfriend experience, the ensemble opts for broad gestures at themes like human growth, family, and resilience.
“Lindiwe” Promises Much, Offers Little
By Anna Aguiar Kosicki / January 21, 2020
If one is looking for a deep dig into blues subculture, South African culture, Chicago culture, or an example of expertly-devised theater, "Lindiwe" disappoints.
"The Rise of Skywalker" is a perfect case study for studio mismanagement of a beloved franchise.
Disney’s “The Rise of Skywalker” is Outrageous and Unfair to the Star Wars Legacy
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / January 21, 2020
Disney has depleted the Star Wars saga of compelling storytelling for the sake of money-making nostalgia, and Episode IX is no exception.
-
Arting Around, Week 3 Edition
January 21, 2020
What to do and where to go during this frigid week 3.
Thomasin McKenzie, Roman Griffin Davis and Taika Waititi in "Jojo Rabbit," written and directed by Waititi.
The Names to Know at Your Oscars Party This Year
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / January 21, 2020
Nine films compete for a tiny golden statue and the title of Best Picture.
"The Farewell" offers a heartwarming message about accepting those you love even if you don’t completely understand their actions.
Asian Americans Deserve Better Than “The Farewell”
By Alex Kong / January 13, 2020
Although “The Farewell” attempts to portray the complexity of the dual nature of Asian-American identity, it sacrifices depth and conflict for mainstream appeal.
BROCKHAMPTON rock the Aragon Ballroom this past December.
“Everyone Was Everyone’s Friend” at BROCKHAMPTON Concert
By Maria Rojas / January 13, 2020
BROCKHAMPTON transforms Aragon Ballroom into a space of pure energy, joy, and acceptance.
-
The Moon is a Female-Only Zone
By Jad Dahshan / January 12, 2020
In “Females,” Andrea Long Chu offers a universalizing framework for understanding gender, sexuality, and desire.
Carson’s written work discards conventional notions of genre in favor of mixing together scholarly research, personal history, etymologies, and performance.
Navigating Stillness with Anne Carson
By Lexi Franciszkowicz, Contributor / December 22, 2019
Poet, classicist, and essayist Anne Carson delivers lecture series at UChicago.
-
Review: University Theater 10th Week Show “Company”
By G. Cyrus Pacht / December 15, 2019
UT's production of the Sondheim and Furth's musical "Company" was worth seeing twice, "partly for pondering its mysteries, but mostly for pleasure."
Adam Sandler plays the endlessly striving, and struggling, Howard in "Uncut Gems."
“Uncut Gems” Not a Stupid Adam Sandler Movie
By Timothy Lee / December 7, 2019
Filmmaking siblings Josh and Benny Safdie's latest adrenaline-fueled crime thriller stars Adam Sandler as Howard, a man under constant pressure on his messy journey to riches.
Maestro Yannick Nézet-Séguin and the Orchestre Métropolitain (OM) de Montréal earned over 7 minutes of standing ovation at the Chicago Symphony Center.
Orchestre Métropolitain Takes Chicago Symphony Center by Storm
By Caleb Sussman, Contributor / December 7, 2019
For the orchestra's U.S. debut, Yannick Nézet-Séguin conducted an awe-inspiring performance of Mozart and Bruckner.
Only without the earplugs can one hear the magical sound that a band like this produces: the shimmering, otherworldly, static scream behind the music, like the sound of the earth itself moving.
This Will Destroy You and Your Eardrums
By Charles Ewell, Contributor / December 3, 2019
This Will Destroy You performs on blasting volumes to demonstrate an otherworldly, evocative music.
Hebru Brantley sits in front of a massive Flyboy head in "Nevermore Park," his immersive installation in Pilsen.
Who Is Flyboy? Visit His House in Pilsen to Find Out.
By Lexi Franciszkowicz, Contributor / December 2, 2019
Chicago Artist Henbru Brantley's 6,000 square foot installation allows visitors to become part of Flyboy's world, and to help create it.
Kaan Tarhan stands poses in front of his series of portraits, titled "Chat & Sketch."
Taking Tea with the Festival of the Arts: Student Artists Create Their Own Space
By Arts Staff / December 2, 2019
At FOTA's fall art gallery, amateur and serious student artists alike had the opportunity to display their work.
Writer-director Rian Johnson and an all-star cast deliver one of the most entertaining movie-going experiences of the year
Rian Johnson Talks “Knives Out.”
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / December 2, 2019
The Chicago Maroon sat down with writer-director Rian Johnson to discuss his new film, "Knives Out."
Writer-director Rian Johnson and an all-star cast deliver one of the most entertaining movie-going experiences of the year
“Knives Out” Is a Sharp and Funny Whodunit for Our Times
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / November 27, 2019
Writer-director Rian Johnson and an all-star cast deliver one of the most entertaining movie-going experiences of the year
-
Megan Thee Stallion Proves a Promising New Star
By Jennifer Morse / November 26, 2019
Megan Thee Stallion is on the rise—and last week, UChicago students managed to get a glimpse of the Houston-born star apparent.
Zines hang at the Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture as part of "THE ART OF PROTEST: Hong Kong Movement Zines 抗議之藝術：香港小冊子," on display through Dec 14th
Zines and Protest: Exhibition on the Art of the Hong Kong Movement
By Lynn Chong / November 26, 2019
Amid great political upheaval in Hong Kong, the PanAsia-run exhibition and panel talk offer an engaging point of intervention in the conversation for the UChicago community.
Glenn Ligon's text-based art is among the works on view at Stony Island Arts Bank.
“In the Absence of Light” Looks at Blackness from the Inside Out
By Tomás Miriti Pacheco / November 26, 2019
On view at the Stony Island Arts Bank through December 29, "In the Absence of Light" features over 20 artists from across the diaspora.
Sleeping Beauty Dreams is a beautifully chaotic amalgamation of contemporary dance, engaging electronica, and real-time animation.
Sleeping Beauty Dreams Brings New Life to a Tired Tale
By Maria Rojas / November 26, 2019
"'Sleeping Beauty Dreams' is a beautifully chaotic amalgamation of contemporary dance, engaging electronica, precise lighting, and most strikingly, groundbreaking, real-time animation."
The creators of Cards Against Humanity present Chicago’s first full-service board game cafe.
Creators of Cards Against Humanity to Open Chicago Board Game Cafe
By Alexis Florence / November 22, 2019
With dining, board games, and escape rooms, the café will open in January.
The Court’s “Oedipus Rex” offers a night of thrilling Greek tragedy and a teaser of things to come for the theater.
Oedipus Rex Kicks Off a Trilogy at the Court
By Kenjiro Lee / November 22, 2019
The Court Theatre’s latest production breathes new life and excitement into the classical Greek tragedy.
CIAO Takes Win in Duello ai Fornelli
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / November 22, 2019
In its first year back on campus, the Italian RSO brought home the top prize in the Chicago cooking competition.
SuperM at Fort Worth.
SuperM Delivers Super Performance
By Jessica Choe / November 22, 2019
SuperM flourishes on a new stage of their own as they attempt to push beyond the limits of our familiarity with K-pop.
Released on October 4th, "Deceiver" is the third studio album by indie rock band DIIV.
DIIV Depress With “Deceiver”
By Matt Herskowitz, Contributor / November 18, 2019
"If the lyrics are any indication of what the album sounds like, you’d probably guess this album sounds pretty depressing. You’re right."
From Anishnabe artist Scott Benesiinaabandan's "Blueberry Pie Under A Martian Sky," featured in last week's exhibit at the MADD Center.
Indigenous Futurisms in VR at MADD Center
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / November 18, 2019
The newly opened MADD Center recently held a two-day exhibition of speculative virtual reality works rooted in imagined futures of indigeneity.
Feel like your Week 8 is in freefall? Le Vorris and Vox has you covered.
Arting Around: Week Eight
November 18, 2019
Jazz piano? A student arts showcase? Circus? We've got you covered.
"Wild Relatives" explores how humans forge and preserve relationships with each other and the environment during times of geopolitical tension.
From Svalbard to Lebanon
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / November 18, 2019
Jumana Manna’s "Wild Relatives" follows the world’s first withdrawal from the Svalbard Global Seed Vault to Lebanon, and comes across the endurance of human relationships amid turmoil.
Ruth Asawa's famous looped-wire sculptures, currently on display at the Art Institute of Chicago.
Bringing Mexican Mid-century Modernism to the Fore
By Miles Franklin / November 18, 2019
The Art Institute of Chicago looks at the story of Mexican modernism through the works of six artists in art, design, and craft.
See Latoya Ruby Frazier's "The Last Cruze" at the Renaissance Society before it closes in December 1st.
“The Last Cruze” Documents the Working Class
By Sylvia Ebenbach / November 14, 2019
Now on view at the Renaissance Society, LaToya Ruby Frazier's solo exhibition focuses both the camera and the microphone on GM workers of Lordstown, Ohio.
Ryan McKinny as Joseph De Rocher in "Dead Man Walking."
“Dead Man” Walks With its Head Held High
By Caleb Sussman, Contributor / November 14, 2019
The Lyric Opera's production of "Dead Man Walking" is a must-see meditation on capital punishment and the possibility of redemption.
Gugu Mbatha-Raw and Edward Norton in "Motherless Brooklyn."
Review: Edward Norton’s “Motherless Brooklyn.”
By Perri Wilson / November 14, 2019
Edward Norton’s first feature as writer-director is a well-written, but ultimately unsatisfying, neo-noir detective film with grand aspirations.
University Theater set their production of Shakespeare's classic story in the modern day
The Ides of March Come to Theater West
By Kenjiro Lee / November 13, 2019
University Theater kicked off its mainstage season this weekend with Shakespeare's "Julius Ceasar."
--
The Jury Is Out on “Clemency”
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / November 11, 2019
For the final review from this year's Chicago International Film Festival: Alfre Woodard shines as prison warden Bernadine Williams in death row drama "Clemency".
--
“Our Mothers”: A Somber and Subtle Offering
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / November 11, 2019
Next up in our series of reviews from the 55th Chicago International Film Festival is "Our Mothers," a story that weaves together the trauma and legacy of the Guatemalan Civil War.
Toro y Moi played at Riviera Theater on the first of the month.
Toro y Moi Takes Chillwave into a New Era
By Charles Ewell, Contributor / November 11, 2019
Toro y Moi's recent show at the Riviera was almost too perfectly done to be entertaining.
JPEGMAFIA played at Bottom Lounge on October 29th.
Moshing For the Public Good: JPEGMAFIA at Bottom Lounge
By Charles Ewell, Contributor / November 11, 2019
JPEGMAFIA’s music serves a political purpose, but, like punk, also caters to an emotional one.
The Chicago Architecture Biennial Pushes Past Cook County
By Anneliese Merry, Contributor / November 11, 2019
With more than 80 contributors and designers from 22 different countries, the exhibition asks how architecture and design can help us to reimagine our relationship with the city.
Ten graduate and undergraduate students were recently sent to an art fair in Vienna to make an acquisition for the Smart Museum.
UChicago Students Make Acquisition for Smart Museum
By Saumya Jain, Associate Arts Editor / November 10, 2019
The Smart Museum’s latest acquisitions from Viennacontemporary involved a unique collaboration with several UChicago students.
Meredith Kochan's Her personifies the dangers of one's draining relationship with mental illness.
“TRU – A Musical for Mental Health” Teases Something Much Bigger
By Kenjiro Lee / November 10, 2019
While "TRU"—co-written by UChicago alumnus David Gosz—falls flat in its development, it is still a fresh and ambitious take on mental illness that will be worth your while.
The Epigraphic Survey staff photographing inscriptions
Discovery, Collection, Memory: The Oriental Institute at 100
By Anna Kuryla / November 10, 2019
Among 3,000-year-old ancient Egyptian coffins and Persian monuments lies a collection of objects from a more recent past, one that tells the story of the Oriental Institute as a museum and institution.
West’s ninth album presents a fundamentally different artistic relationship with God from his previous works.
Kanye West Produces a Beautiful Service, but It’s Missing a Sermon
By Warren Wagner / November 10, 2019
West’s latest album "Jesus is King" is good, but can he really swear off secular music?
“A Girl Missing”
By Shuwen Fang / November 8, 2019
In the second installment of our coverage of this year's Chicago International Film Festival, one of our writers reviews the Japanese film, "A Girl Missing."
Thomasin McKenzie, Roman Griffin Davis and Taika Waititi in "Jojo Rabbit," written and directed by Waititi.
The Intense, the Funny, and the Less Funny: 55th CIFF Review
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / November 8, 2019
Our writers check out some choice picks from the extensive lineup at this year's Chicago International Film Festival.
In this interview, Gosz describes how his experience at UChicago led to the beginnings of a career in musical theater.
With “TRU,” Leo Fotos and Alumni David Gosz Seek to Change the Conversation around Mental Health
By Kenjiro Lee / November 6, 2019
College alumnus David Gosz talks music theater, a cappella, and mental health.
The Joffrey Ballet adaptation of Jane Eyre proves it is one of the greatest storytelling triumphs.
Joffrey Ballet Takes on Jane Eyre
By Jessica Choe / November 6, 2019
From literary classic to ballet masterpiece, Joffrey Ballet’s Jane Eyre adaptation dazzles.
The panel of activist scholars in dialogue advocated for the abolition of police and the systems of racism and control they perpetuate.
Smart Talk: “The Problem with Police”
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / November 6, 2019
In collaboration with the Pozen Family Center for Human Rights, the Smart Museum hosted a discussion surrounding issues of police violence.
Patric McCoy, Youngblood (detail), 1985, printed 2016, digital print from original negative. © Patric McCoy. Courtesy of the artist.
Arting Around: Week Six
November 6, 2019
Distract yourself from midterms this week with Diwali, a Silent Disco, and pita bread.
-
“In Spirit + Structure”: Faith as Subject, Object, and Personal Identity at the Arts Incubator
By Lynn Chong / October 31, 2019
In Nathan Miller's first solo exhibition, "In Spirit + Structure," currently on display at the Arts Incubator Gallery, the artist uses photography, sculpture, sound and installation to represent his relationship with faith.
Plastic lemons are scattered across the floor in front of bizarre animations in Young's installation, "The highway is like a lion's mouth."
Samson Young: Silver Moon or Golden Star, Which Will You Buy of Me?
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / October 31, 2019
At the Smart Museum, Samson Young’s debut U.S. exhibition warns us about the ways dreaming about a technological utopia could bring about a dystopian future.
Chicago Open House visitors waited in line to enter the Art Deco vaults at the Chicago Board of Trade building.
The Gods and Gold That Remain: Chicago Open House 2019
By Susie Xu / October 31, 2019
Writer Susie Xu peaked inside the some of Chicago's oldest, and newest, financial institutions and business centers during this year's Open House Chicago.
The Newberry Consort celebrates the musical and theatrical depictions of Margarita Teresa, yet struggles to represent her.
Imperial Festivities of the Midwest: The Newberry Consort’s “The Empress Margarita Teresa”
By Alexander Oreskes / October 28, 2019
The Newberry Consort puts up a misguided, if technically excellent, performance of "The Empress Margarita Teresa" to open their “Year of the Woman” series.
Like a surreal elephant's trumpet resonating from an impossibly far distance, an unreachable hope humanizes four dissociated characters as they trudge through the bleak banality of life in "An Elephant Sitting Still."
Hope as an Impossible Elephant Sitting Still
By Lily Ren / October 28, 2019
Hu Bo’s one and only feature film, screened at Doc Films last Sunday, is a masterpiece of the long take and offers a resolution of hope that borders on the absurd.
Catch the action-packed vampire thriller "From Dusk Till Dawn" after dark, directed by Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino.
Arting Around: Week Five
October 28, 2019
This week, trick-or-treat yourself to a wickedly good time at Ex After Dark, lift your spirits watching From Dusk till Dawn, or find love at first bite at the South Side Pie Challenge.
The very humanities themselves converged upon campus, inviting insight, interconnection, and interrogation of what the humanities still mean in a world that sometimes appears to pass them by.
On Humanities Day, Everything Is Everything Becoming Everything
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / October 28, 2019
The 39th Annual Humanities Day once again forces us to examine what it means to be us in an age of great technological and social upheaval.
-
Parasite Worms Its Way Into Your Mind
By Anna Aguiar Kosicki / October 28, 2019
Bong Joon-ho’s "Parasite" lives up to its critical expectations and subtly disembowels the underbelly of income inequality.
"The Safety Patrol" by Bisa Butler is one of the Art Institute's newest acquisitions.
#BlackGirlMagic: Art Institute of Chicago Acquires New Work
By Jad Dahshan / October 27, 2019
The Art Institute of Chicago recently acquired works by Bisa Butler, Amanda Williams, and Tschabalala Self.
Guirarist Julian Lage  and pianist Fred Hersch opened the "Jazz at the Logan" series on October 18th.
You Like Jazz? Lage and Hersch Dazzle at Logan
By Jennifer Morse / October 27, 2019
Julian Lage and Fred Hersch bridge a generational gap with some smooth jazz.
Two weeks ago, the Academy Chamber Ensemble, drawing its members from the chamber orchestra of the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields, opened UChicago Presents' 2019/2020 season.
A Virtuosic Ensemble Gets Lost in the Fields
By Caleb Sussman, Contributor / October 25, 2019
The Chamber Ensemble of the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields opened the UChicago Presents season with an unwieldy program
Alisa Kolosova as Duchess Federica in Lyric Opera's production of "Luisa Miller."
“Luisa Miller” is a Pleasant Surprise
By Caleb Sussman, Contributor / October 25, 2019
-The Lyric Opera continues their solid start to the 2019–20 season with a surprisingly transcendent production of Verdi's "Luisa Miller."
What Studios Can Learn from “Joker”
By Timothy Lee / October 23, 2019
The financial success of Todd Phillip's "Joker" should encourage studios to produce similarly thoughtful and creative blockbusters in the future.
See "The Tent," on display in the Logan Center exhibition space as part of "Tufting Gun Tapestries," through October 27th.
Tents, Tufting, and Tradition at the Logan Center
By Sylvia Ebenbach / October 23, 2019
At the Logan Center Gallery, "Tufting Gun Tapestries" presents and delineates the intricate and often painstaking labor of art and fashion.
Like the moon landing, Eto'o marks the unprecedented achievement of their spaghetti with a flag.
Fuse or Lose?
By Perri Wilson and Veronica Karlin / October 21, 2019
We scraped the surface of Hyde Park's fusion food scene, asking all the hard questions as we ate.
The Pret A Manger Green Good Stuff juice, despite its uneven balance between fruits and vegetables, is a convenient grab when in a rush.
Drink to Health
By Miles Franklin / October 21, 2019
I was rather surprised to find that people actually cared about juice, so I jumped from Instagram story reviews to The Maroon.
A flock of lilac marshmallow birds - one of America's biggest culinary mistakes.
Wholesome Unofficially FDA-Approved Content
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / October 21, 2019
While defined by an almost admirable experimental spirit, at its worst, American food can be truly, freakishly awful.
Meleko Mokgosi: Bread, Butter, and Power, 2018, Installation view, Fowler Museum at UCLA. Courtesy the artist and Honor Fraser, Los Angeles. Photo © Monica Nouwens.
Opening Day: Bread, Butter, and Power
By Jad Dahshan and Alina Kim / October 21, 2019
In "Bread, Butter, and Power", Meleko Mokgosi adapts a historically exclusionary European genre painting tradition for a postcolonial, southern African context.
Among other things, Midsommar is what you get when you cross a bad shrooms trip with the world's worst break-up.
Midsommar Is Alright but Could Be Shorter
By Sasha Elenko / October 14, 2019
A floral Scandinavian nightmare, "Midsommar" takes viewers on a cinematic acid trip gone wrong, favoring psychedelic aesthetics over narrative substance.
Meleko Mokgosi, Bread, Butter, and Power (detail), 2018, Oil paint on canvas.
Arting Around: Week 3
October 14, 2019
This week offers you a magic show at the Logan Center, an opening reception at the Smart, and a Humanities Day stretching all across campus!
Dicey Dungeons presents a bizarre premise but is highly rewarding if you are willing to stick through the challenge.
Roll and Slash: “Dicey Dungeons” Puts a New Spin on Roguelikes
By Alex Oreskes / October 14, 2019
Despite all the dice roles, Terry Cavanagh’s new role-playing dice game has buckets of character and some surprisingly intense strategy.
Adam Plachetka, Alessandro Corbelli and Krzysztof Baczyk in the Lyric's uproariously funny production.
The Lyric Opera Opens on a Hilarious Note with Barber of Seville
By Caleb Sussman, Contributor / October 13, 2019
Lyric’s talented cast and orchestra overcomes the distracting direction to deliver a masterful performance of Rossini’s comical opera.
-
Theater[24] Gets About As Mathematic As It Can Get
By Kenjiro Lee / October 12, 2019
UChicago thespians spend a night at Reynolds Club solving math questions with theater.
Maggie Brown and her band rock the stage at the Hyde Park Jazz Festival.
Jazz Festival Swings by Hyde Park
By Leone Fang / October 7, 2019
As students moved back to campus, jazz lovers from around the world flocked to the South Side for the 13th annual Hyde Park Jazz Festival.
Third Coast Percussion will be playing at the Logan Center on Saturday night.
Arting Around, Week Two Edition
October 7, 2019
This week, raid the lost ark, draw at the Art Institute, and frolic in Martin's fields.
Over 170 booths were set up for this year’s fair, split between established commercial galleries seeking to sell art and cultural spaces hosting curated exhibitions.
EXPO Chicago Shows Off the Face of Contemporary Art
By Matt Herskowitz, Contributor / October 7, 2019
EXPO Chicago 2019 showcases regional and international art by established as well as emerging creatives at Navy Pier.
(right to left)  Gabriel Rourke, Emil Sohlberg and Matilda Kupfer in "The Hardy Boys & The Mystery Of Where Babies Come From" by Christopher Durang, directed by Afriti Bankwalla
Theater on Campus
September 22, 2019
Feeling a little dramatic this o-week? Put your emotions to good use by getting involved in campus' theater scene.
-
Where to Get Your Groove on at UChicago
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / September 22, 2019
From ballet to hip-hop, swing dance to K-pop, the College community is bursting with opportunities for the kinetically inclined to stretch their feet.
Arts and Culture Off Campus
September 22, 2019
We've pulled together a tiny sampling of the many, many, artsy opportunities that Chicago has to offer.
-
Dunking the Brush: Visual Arts on Campus
By Perri Wilson / September 22, 2019
Whether you’re looking to make art or appreciate it, the UChicago campus is brimming with opportunities for you to make happy little accidents.
Grounds of Being
Café Au Chicago: A Guide to Coffee Around Campus
By Jad Dahshan and Katie Zhou / September 22, 2019
From mochas to lattes, high-traffic areas to shyer spots, the coffee scene around campus is buzzing.
Members of UChicago's Dirt Red Brass Band perform at Alpha Delt fraternity.
Marching to the Beat of Your Own Drum: Music at UChicago
By Jane Jozefowicz / September 15, 2019
From the classical to the contemporary and the well-established to the student-run, opportunities to play and appreciate music abound at UChicago.
Janelle Monáe arguably delivered the standout performance of the weekend, complete with choreography, dance-offs, and costume changes.
At This Year’s Lollapalooza, No Issue too Big and No Outfit too Sparkly
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / August 11, 2019
This year's Lollapalooza was a chant for change, yet political tension never predominated the otherwise invigorating celebration of musical artistry.
lolla
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / August 11, 2019
-
Lulu Wang talks about "The Farewell," representation, and future plans.
Lulu Wang Goes Above And Beyond With “The Farewell,” And She’s Only Getting Started
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / July 25, 2019
Director Lulu Wang sits with the Chicago Maroon for an interview about her second feature film, The Farewell, out July 19.
Dave Bautista and Kumail Nanjiani have great comedic chemistry, in the same vein as Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito in "Twins", or Channing Tatum and Jonah Hill in "21 Jump Street".
“Stuber” Falls Short of a Five Star Rating
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / July 18, 2019
While "Stuber" stars Dave Bautista and Kumail Nanjiani share commendable comedic chemistry, the film's writers fail the promising duo.
"The Farewell" offers a heartwarming message about accepting those you love even if you don’t completely understand their actions.
“The Farewell” Teaches Us How to Welcome Our Differences Before Saying Goodbye
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / July 18, 2019
Lulu Wang’s “The Farewell” offers a loving, sensitive take on Chinese-American culture, and may very well be the best film of the summer.
-
Champagne, a Cactus, and a Bike Named Gertrude: Graduating Students Share Their Keepsakes
By Jeremy Lindenfeld / June 6, 2019
The relationships between graduating students and their favorite mementos shed light on the transformative, altogether too fast experience that is college.
Kali Uchis (right) and Jorja Smith (left) in the music video for their song, "Tyrant".
Paradise Lost and Found Again, Together
By Alex Dalton / June 4, 2019
Jorja Smith and Kali Uchis share the Aragon Ballroom stage in a passionate, exuberant double bill.
Now known for its creativity, global scale, and extremely competitive audition processes, Cirque stages shows that cannot be missed... and Volta is no exception.
Cirque du Soleil’s Volta: Acrobats, Actors, and Technicians’ Artistic Haven
By Lynn Chong / June 3, 2019
“Volta” sees Cirque du Soleil deliver another emphatic bout of acrobatic and aesthetic excellence.
Fourth-year Ricky Novaes declared his double-major in political science and creative writing, the latter driven by his love for the spontaneity and beauty of poetry.
Ricky Novaes Doesn’t Want to Write the Next Harry Potter
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / June 3, 2019
Fourth-year Ricky Novaes reflects on the road less taken.
Gupta has wrestled with the question of where art fits into the broader political struggle to make the world a better place.
juhiguptaandherbizarreartpolitic.pdf
By Alex Dalton / June 3, 2019
Who needs time for conventional art when you're Juhi Gupta?
Winter's sound is so rich that it’s almost unbelievable that the whole album only uses one or two instruments at a time.
Eli Winter’s Time Is Yet to Come (But He’s Pretty Damn Good So Far)
By Zakir Jamal / June 3, 2019
Eli Winter marvels at Constellation with his debut album “The Time To Come,” delivering stunning, passionate performances through his guitar instrumentals.
Writers' Room discusses the feeling of being the "unheard" minority in a predominantly white workspace.
Trapped in a World of White People
By Kenjiro Lee / May 31, 2019
Maroon TV’s “Writer’s Room” portrays the invisibility of people of color in white-dominated institutions, and the many frustrations that follow.
Natalie Lobach, an undergraduate at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, created “The Wax House."
To Redefine, to Relive, to Remember
By Veronica Karlin / May 28, 2019
The Center for the Study of Gender and Sexuality’s inaugural Arts Collective show “Re : ” sees an exciting array of creative responses from student artists across Chicago.
-
Florence and the Machine and Its Not-So-Useless Magic
By Jad Dahshan / May 28, 2019
Florence and the Machine mix their mystical, magical, medieval sound with world-weariness at the Huntington Bank Pavilion, speaking out against recent abortion bans in America and scolding toxic masculinity.
Aminé concluded the night with hits "REDMERCEDES," "WHY?" and "Caroline."
The Wind Blew Me Away, but Aminé and Co. Reeled Me Back in
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / May 27, 2019
Our associate editor really hated the rain. Everything else, not so much.
Mitsuko Uchida graced the CSO with her renditions of Mozart, with conductor Riccardo Muti and the orchestra accompanying.
Kissin’s Ferocity and Uchida’s Velocity Charm the CSO
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / May 27, 2019
Mitsuko Uchida and Evgeny Kissin bring different styles to the CSO stage with similarly resounding levels of success.
Activists Discuss Mass Incarceration Crisis at Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture
By Adrian Rucker, Deputy Arts Editor / May 27, 2019
Both speakers pointed to the need to “contextualize, humanize, and render legible,” the complex network of forces, interacting in compounding ways, that serves to maintain oppression.
From their humble beginnings, the members of BTS have reached global fame through not only their upbeat music, but also their powerful message of never giving up.
BTS and Their ARMY Overrun Soldier Field
By Jessica Choe / May 22, 2019
K-pop group BTS asserts itself as the Beatles of the 21st century at the Soldier Field Stadium with humility and grandeur.
Last Dinosaurs, comprising (from left to right) Dan Koyama, Sean Caskey, and Michael Sloane, at the Beat Kitchen on the 9th of May.
Indie Sadbois Won’t Go Extinct Anytime Soon
By Natalia Rodriguez / May 20, 2019
Indie group Last Dinosaurs performed at Beat Kitchen on May 9, serving indie boy detachment and groove alike.
Passion Pit frontman Michael Angelakos dazzles at the Riviera Theater, but to little avail.
Audience Falls Flat into a Passion Pit at the Riviera
By Sylvia Ebenbach / May 20, 2019
Passion Pit flatters to deceive in a performance that went heavy on spectacle but fell short in subtlety.
Hamlet (Maurice Jones) and Laertes (Paul Deo, Jr.) duke it out in the climactic finale of Chicago Shakespeare Theater's production of HAMLET, directed by Barbara Gaines.
No Unanswered Questions in Chicago Shakespeare Theater’s “Hamlet”
By Jade Yan / May 20, 2019
Running at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater on Navy Pier until June 9, director Barbara Gaines’s Hamlet does not shy away from providing answers.
-
Photo Essay: Summer Breeze 2019
By Adrián Mandeville / May 20, 2019
UChicago students weather the rain delay to turn out for another successful edition of Summer Breeze, headlined this year by Allie X, Becky G, and Aminé.
-
Detective Pikachu Uses Humor! It’s Not Very Effective…
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / May 17, 2019
What the majority of characters in "Detective Pikachu" lack in terms of good lines, Ryan Reynolds makes up for in voice-acting Pikachu.
The cast of "Yellow Face": (L to R) Christine Yan, Zander Galluppi, Quinn McKissock (obscured), Brandon Zang, Emil Sohlberg, Hope Gundlah
“Yellow Face”: Is It Merely Skin-Deep?
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / May 17, 2019
David Henry Hwang’s “Yellow Face” was performed at the Logan Center last weekend, bringing viewers face-to-face with issues of whitewashing, identity, and the American Dream.
Second-year Maya Osman-Krinsky standing next to the exhibit they created at the Reg.
To Resist a Fascist: Lost Voices Found in Translation
By Zoe Bean / May 13, 2019
Collegiate Assistant Professor Miguel Caballero Vázquez and second-year Maya Osman-Krinsky talk to The Maroon about their exhibit on the poetry of the Spanish Civil War.
Many of the new songs invite more empathy and optimism for the tortured genius persona Berninger has occupied in previous records.
With Their New Project, The National Shows That Optimism Is Easy to Find.
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / May 13, 2019
Doc Films screened “I Am Easy to Find,” a collaborative film and music project by director Mike Mills and alt-rock band The National.
Rather than following a general plot-driven structure, "Across the Pond" steps away from a focus on storyline to exclusively shine a spotlight on the music and dance.
“Across the Pond” and Its Extravagant Minimalism
By Jessica Choe / May 13, 2019
"Across the Pond" breaks from the ballet canon.
-
Vampire Weekend Grew Up and Moved to California and “Father of the Bride” Is the Result
By Lucas Du / May 10, 2019
Vampire Weekend’s new album addresses love, politics, climate change, and a growing sense of place in the world.
PanAsia’s Spring Festival Amplifies Asian Voices on Campus
By Lynn Chong / May 6, 2019
Running through May, PanAsia Solidarity Coalition’s 2019 Spring Festival celebrates Asian-American identity through poetry, film screenings, and discussions.
Wittgenstein's face emerges from a tree at the Neubauer Collegium's "HUTOPIA."
The Secret Life of Philosophers Revealed at the Neubauer Collegium
By Zakir Jamal / May 6, 2019
In true Heideggerian fashion, "HUTOPIA" deconstructs the museum and presents a dynamic foray into the interior lives of three philosophers.
Welsh singer Marina Diamandis released "Love + Fear" in April.
Marina’s Love + Fear = Catchy + Empty
By Jennifer Morse / May 6, 2019
While impressive in production and concept, Marina’s newest record, "Love + Fear", fails lyrically.
“I can’t turn it off,” says Winter on his love for music. “I don’t just hear it, but visualize it as it’s happening. I can’t escape it. If I didn’t use music as an expressive tool, I’d go crazy, or stop blooming, wilt, die a metaphorical death.”
Winter Is Coming: A Third-year’s Perspective on Musicianship and Academics
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / May 3, 2019
Third-year Eli Winter talks with The Maroon about his musical inspirations, debut album, and student-musician life.
Janet Ulrich Brooks, Yasen Peyankov, and Ora Jones discuss nuclear catastrophe and personal jealousy in the "The Children."
“The Children” Asks the Tough Questions
By Jessica Choe / May 3, 2019
In "The Children," running at the Steppenwolf Theater through June 9, follows three nuclear scientists as they grapple with catastrophes, big and small.
-
Growing Up and Letting Go With “Blowout”
By Andrew Farry / May 3, 2019
Liz Magor: BLOWOUT is the new exhibit at the Renaissance Society by Canadian visual artist Liz Magor, running until June 23.
-
Sunn O))) Graces Rockefeller Chapel
By Julian Stuart-Burns / May 3, 2019
Seattle-based metal band, Sunn O))), created a sensory spectacle with thundering chords, amazing lights, and plenty of smoke.
The film derives much of its comedy from commentary on our current political climate, but remains funny, lighthearted, and never preachy.
O’Shea Jackson, Jr. Looks Far Ahead with “Long Shot”
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / April 29, 2019
O'Shea Jackson, Jr. talks to The Maroon about upcoming comedy "Long Shot" and his future career plans.
The paintings become an emotional reminder and tribute to a loved and well-respected leader, reflecting on Obama's character and the impact of his presidency.
The Obama Paintings: A Presidency in 2,922 Moments
By Sylvia Ebenbach / April 29, 2019
Visual artist Rob Pruitt's Obama Paintings display the former president's political legacy as well as his more personal roles as a father, husband, and hero.
The Avengers saga, along with all the smash hits Marvel Studios has produced, has redefined our perceptions of the movie-going experience.
“Endgame”: Cinematic Lessons Hitherto Undreamt Of (Spoiler-Free)
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / April 29, 2019
The conclusion of the Avengers saga is an exhilarating success, but also teaches us lessons about our modern film industry and pop culture.
One of the many stunning performances at the ACSA's 15th Anniversary Cultural Show. Photo taken by Jaire Byers (@jaire.photo).
ACSA’s 15th Anniversary Culture Show Highlights the Diversity of African and Caribbean Culture
By Jennifer Morse / April 25, 2019
The African Caribbean Student Association’s 15th Anniversary Cultural Show was triumphant in showing myriad elements of African culture, from storytelling to dance to fashion.
-
When Flowers Fall on the Rain: Plucking Out Landmines With Music
By Jad Dahshan / April 25, 2019
Second-year releases album with father and friend to support de-mining efforts in Cambodia.
The dibi chicken —an exquisitely spiced grilled dark meat chicken with peppers and onions.
I Tried Every Item on the Menu at Gorée Cuisine and Everything Was Spectacular
By Adam Chan / April 24, 2019
Gorée Cuisine brings excellent and affordable Senegalese fare to Hyde Park.
Sik-K demonstrated his musical versatility, wooing his audience with both sultry and upbeat melodies.
Sik-K Storms Through the Windy City
By Jessica Choe / April 24, 2019
K-hip-hop star Sik-K showcases his sultriest moves.
Kira Leadholm's work is on display at the Logan Center Gallery through April 28th.
For a Successful B.A. Thesis Show, “sear pork shoulder”
By Amelia Frank / April 22, 2019
At the annual B.A. Thesis Exhibition, graduating visual arts majors present a commendable range of media, ideas, and artmaking practices.
Ramy Youssef introduces a millennial's Muslim-American narrative in his new Hulu webseries.
Ramy Youssef Does Ramy Like Only Ramy Can
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / April 22, 2019
Doc Films recently hosted an advanced screening and Q&A of "Ramy," the newest Hulu series about a Muslim American navigating his bipartite identity and its moral quandaries.
Nathaniel Cross and Amber Gray in "Hadestown," which recently opened on Broadway.
For Your Consideration: “Hadestown,” Now On Broadway
By Kenjiro Lee / April 21, 2019
"Hadestown" sets the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice in a post-apocalyptic world with outstanding success.
-
Subtle Asian Story: An Outright Triumph
By Lynn Chong / April 21, 2019
Sensasia showcased the incredible diversity of East and Southeast Asian culture while boldly introducing a new approach to artistic cultural performance—fashion shows.
Beanie Feldstein and Kaitlyn Dever in "Booksmart."
Take Note: “Booksmart” is Here to Redefine High School Movies
By Sylvia Ebenbach / April 17, 2019
Olivia Wilde's directorial debut follows a high-achieving high school senior, played by Beanie Feldstein, on her quest for the "real" high school experience.
This is a band that ages like a fine wine on stage.
Muse Redeems Itself Live at the United Center
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / April 15, 2019
At the final American show of its Simulation Theory World Tour, Muse delivers a performance beyond words.
Mrs. Kim, Mr. Kim, and Janet Kim, played by Jean Yoon, Paul Sun-Hyung Lee, and Andrea Bang, respectively, deliberate in the eponymous, family-owned grocery store.
Now With International Fame, “Kim’s Convenience” Strikes Again
By Kenjiro Lee / April 15, 2019
The new season of "Kim’s Convenience" offers insightful depictions of Korean-Canadian family dynamics in episodes seasoned with humor and drama.
-
Ex Hex Proves That Nostalgia Is Still Cool
By Zoe Bean / April 15, 2019
It’s clear that the group has relaxed into a more garage-rock tone, but their technical skills and ’80s aesthetic keep the act from becoming too disheveled.
Robert Pattinson and Scartlett Lindsey in High Life
“High Life” Takes the Low Road
By Perri Wilson / April 12, 2019
Doc Films recently hosted a screening of Claire Denis’s "High Life" as well as a Q&A with the renowned French director.
The audience's cheers filled Mandel hall as UChicago Bhangra took the stage.
Mission Accomplished—SASA Performance a Bold Success
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / April 11, 2019
SASA celebrated the many cultures of the University’s South Asian community with an exciting night of music, dancing, and a hopeful message of acceptance, unity, and diversity.
Andrew Bird plays at the Green Mill.
Andrew Bird Spreads Wings at Green Mill
By Billie Malès / April 8, 2019
At the Green Mill, musician Andrew Bird delighted listeners with an evening of fresh tunes, old favorites, and classic jazz standards.
Digital designs for the proposed public memorial.
Still Here: Torture, Resiliency, and the Art of Memorializing
By Lynn Chong / April 8, 2019
Fulfilling the final promise of the Reparations Ordinance, artists display designs for a public memorial at the Arts Incubator.
Jack Dylan Grazer as Freddie and Zachary Levi as the adult Billy in "Shazam!"
The Wide-Eyed Wonder of “Shazam!”
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / April 4, 2019
With "Shazam!", DC delivers strong, family-friendly fare that is equal parts entertaining and lighthearted.
Hari Kunzru
Hari Kunzru on the Modern Distortion of Truth
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / April 2, 2019
As part of the Museum of Contemporary Art’s experimental lecture series, novelist Hari Kunzru spoke about the “values and ethics of truth.”
-
Exhibit A
By Maroon Staff / April 2, 2019
What to do and where to go this month.
Fourth-year Ri Desta plays the role of cartoonist and graphic novelist Alison Bechdel.
Fun Home Opens Its Doors in Logan
By Alex Oreskes / March 30, 2019
Fourth-year Emily Lovett brought out the deep tragedy of her character’s ruinous marriage in “Days and Days,” while first-year Lara Sachdeva portrayed a tender moment of excitement and self-discovery with aplomb.
Captain Marvel manages to live up to its overhyped billing, despite the exaggerated critiques in recent reviews.
The Standard Badass Superhero of Captain Marvel
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / March 21, 2019
It is an enjoyable film that, while relying heavily on the established tropes and feel of the MCU so far, will not leave comic book movie fans unsatisfied.
-
Professor Austin Carson Spills Secrets About Spilling Blood
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / March 15, 2019
Professor Austin Carson explains the politics behind secrecy in covert operations, ultimately concluding that it is a strategy in a power-grab for escalation control.
In 2001, John Cameron Mitchell played Hedwig in the film adaption of "Hedwig and the Angry Inch." Now, 18 years later, he is bringing Hedwig back with The Origin of Love Tour.
Hedwig Creator Brings Songs, Stories, and the Wig to Chicago
By Kenjiro Lee / March 15, 2019
John Cameron Mitchell unpacks the creation and enduring significance of “Hedwig” on stage.
Poet and screenwriter Fatimah Asghar spoke at the Reynolds Club last Thursday.
Fatimah Asghar and Parul Sehgal on South Asian Stories
By Bradley Tian / March 11, 2019
Asghar certainly does not shy away from politics in her writing––she mentions the Muslim travel ban in her book––but she notes that it does not stem from wanting to be political or to attract attention.
-
The Strange and Metatheatrical “Don Gil”
By Kenjiro Lee / March 11, 2019
Though the audience mostly remained separate from the action of the story, the characters seemed almost constantly aware that there was a large crowd of people watching them and occasionally interacted or messed with audience members as they saw fit.
As the opening act for You Me at Six, machineheart soared with soulful vibes and boundless energy performing their debut album, “People Change.”
machineheart Crank It Up at Bottom Lounge
By Sylvia Ebenbach / March 7, 2019
The band members were laid-back but visibly spirited and passionate about their art.
The Seoul cityscape stretched open before the audience at the Korean Student Organizations 2019 Cultural Show, "Seoul Searching".
“Seoul Searching” With KSO
By Laura Chen / March 4, 2019
The Korean Student Organization’s 2019 cultural show, Seoul Searching, took the audience on a journey across the history, culture, and city of Seoul, South Korea.
With all the problematic and disturbing aspects of their film, it seems that Noé and his team “presentent un film terrible et fier de l’être”.
“Climax” Climatically Disturbs
By Isaac Tannenbaum, Contributor / March 4, 2019
Gaspar Noé loves to shock and disgust with his art, but went too far with "Climax", rendering his film devoid of any appreciable artistic qualities.
Empress Of
Empress Of Reigns Supreme in Sleeping Village
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / March 4, 2019
From slow jams to dance floor bangers, it seems like Empress Of can do it all.
“Shit can be something that we recalibrate and reconstitute altogether in a way that doesn’t merely disavow it.”
Julietta Singh on Archives, Embodiment, and Shit
By Brooke Nagler / March 4, 2019
Author Julietta Singh discussed her book, "No Archive Will Restore You", a poignant treatise on personal archives, identity formation, as well as physical and emotional refuse.
--
Anderson .Paak Earned Bragging Rights at the Riviera
By Zoe Bean / March 2, 2019
Recent Grammy winner Anderson .Paak sang, drummed, and smiled his way through his set at the Riviera Theatre with his band Free Nationals.
"The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe" is slated for release in 2019 and will feature new content and allow the game to be played on consoles.
Red Pill or Blue Pill, Left or Right?
By Alexander Oreskes / March 1, 2019
"The Stanley Parable" makes astute commentary about the expectations players have in video games and linear storytelling in general.
-
MODA Shows off Unconventional Glamor
By Jade Yan / February 26, 2019
The designs and models exhibited not only the creativity but also the technical skill of the various designers in the show.
The Folk Festival Triumphantly Returns to Mandel Hall
By June Villers / February 25, 2019
Featuring two nights of live performances and a day of workshops, the event featured a geographically and culturally diverse array of folk musicians and artistry.
The dragons remain cute as ever three movies into the series, but the final movie of the trilogy falls short of expectations.
The Hidden World Falls Short of a Happy Landing
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / February 25, 2019
As a moviegoer who loves character-driven stories, I feel like The Hidden World failed to improve upon the characters who have been so well thought out in the first two movies.
The Dean's Men production is anchored by stellar performances by Sadie Seddon-Stettler as Macbeth (left) and Isabella Hurtado as Lady Macbeth (right).
Dean’s Men Deliver an Intriguing Take on the Scottish Play
By Kenjiro Lee / February 25, 2019
The second encounter with the witches was, in all seriousness, the best version of this sequence I’ve ever seen, executed in a spectacular way I have never witnessed prior to this rendition of the Scottish Play.
-
Photo Essay: 2019 MODA
By Alexandra Nisenoff / February 25, 2019
This year's MODA, hosted at Theatre on the Lake, featured a variety of styles, from streetwear to color-popping two pieces, to millennial fashion-inspired suits.
This Season Turns You Into Big Brother
By Kendall Chappell / February 24, 2019
The celebrity edition of Big Brother offers the same humorous shenanigans as previous seasons, just with a few more familiar faces.

Interview: Emily Jungmin Yoon on her debut poetry collection “A Cruelty Special to our Species”
By Atman Mehta, Contributor / February 22, 2019
Emily Jungmin Yoon is a PhD student in the Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations at the University. She sits down with The Maroon to talk about her debut poetry collection "A Cruelty Special to Our Species".
Act V (Plaisance) of Atlas Unlimited took place at the Logan Center Gallery on February 1st and featured a cast of "Builders" activating the gallery with the artists Pandian and Zins-Browne.
Atlas Unlimited Traces Stories of Migration
By Sylvia Ebenbach / February 21, 2019
Currently on display at Logan Center Exhibitions, "Atlas Unlimited (Acts V–VI)" forces one to consider how stories evolve as they traverse geographies, histories, and cultures.
Delivering a performance just as lively as their name, Rainbow Kitten Surprise's set at the Riviera was colorful to say the least.
Rainbow Kitten Surprise Roars with Catchy Melodies
By Adrián Mandeville / February 21, 2019
With vocals just as colorful as the stage lights, Rainbow Kitten Surprise truly lived up to their name (minus the kittens).
With a moving musical score by Ilya Demutsky, Joffrey Ballet's production of the Tolstoy classic embodied all the Variety, Charm, and Beauty of the original in dance.
Joffrey Ballet Brings Tolstoy to The Stage
By Jessica Choe / February 21, 2019
Choreographed by Yuri Possokhov, Joffrey Ballet’s adaptation of “Anna Karenina” was as dazzling as it was depressing.
Build Coffee's meal-based residency program strives to combat the “starving artist” stereotype, providing support to local artists that extends beyond simply exhibiting their art.
Starving Artists No Longer: Build Coffee’s Meal-Based Residency Program
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / February 21, 2019
The coffee shop’s community-minded initiative provides local artists with both an exhibition space as well as a regular meal plan.
10 Letters a Day Keeps the President’s Headway
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / February 21, 2019
Author of “To Obama: With Love, Joy, Hate and Despair” Jeanne Marie Laskas gives talk at 57th Street Books.
Jessica Harper tells the story of her childhood and family in Winnetka, Il.
“Winnetka” is More Than a Suburban Story
By Laura Chen / February 21, 2019
Local actress Jessica Harper spoke to "The Maroon" about her new podcast, "Winnetka."
Simon Trpčeski performed Rachmaninov’s Third Piano Concerto with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra
CSO Dazzles with a Unique Rendition of Rachmaninoff and Tchaikovsky
By Victor Yang / February 21, 2019
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Simon Trpčeski pull off a highly technical performance full of expression and dynamism.
In This “Doll’s House,” Swearing and Laughing Encouraged
By Jessica Choe / February 21, 2019
Steppenwolf’s contemporary remake of "A Doll’s House" attempts to break down the barrier between audience and performance.
Dancers perform Ingrid Fiksdal's "STATE."
The MCA’s “STATE” Presents a Vision of Society
By Lynn Chong / February 21, 2019
"STATE" used dance as a medium to examine relations between the state, society, and individuality.
Instagram, Myles said, is “the other side of poetry” because the poet is observing their everyday scene.
Eileen Myles Reads Poetry and Poeticizes Instagram
By Brooke Nagler / February 18, 2019
Instagram puts you instantly in the gallery. “You get to be at the open mic of the world visually,” Myles described.
Despite the many ways in which Chaudhuri’s culture influences his work, he does not strive to be an “Indian author,” nor does he think of himself as such.
Amit Chaudhuri Recaptures the Past in “Friend of My Youth”
By Bradley Tian / February 18, 2019
“‘This is something I’ve always been interested in…the unexpected, explosive implications of something coming back to life again.’”
Clockwise from top: Grilled Spanish Pulpo, Sauteed Mushrooms, Brussel Sprouts, Maine Lobster, Truffle Mac and Cheese, Elote.
Red Fish, Bleu Fish: Sad Fish, Bad Fish
By Austin Lai / February 18, 2019
I know a plating faux paus when I see one (I’ve watched "Top Chef" and "Chopped" religiously), and I was appalled.
-
UBallet’s Performs Impressive “La Esmeralda” Interpretation
By June Villers / February 18, 2019
Over the course of the two-hour show, performers danced and pantomimed through scenes and conflicts from Victor Hugo’s original work.
Urie performed with the Charisma of an Emperor with no clothes.
Subtlety, Thy Name Is Not Urie
By Veronica Chang, Arts Editor / February 15, 2019
Urie’s capabilities as a performer are well-honed and carefully calculated, his grandiose theatricality earning him deafening screams of adulation from the audience.
David Maljković, Problems with Predecessor, 2013-14.
“Also on View:” David Maljković Tackles Continuity and Form
By Zeff Worley, Contributor / February 11, 2019
The Croatian artist’s "Also on View" brings together an interconnected and referential body of works ranging from video to sculpture.
-
Mick Jenkins’s Poetics Are a Concert Downer
By Eric Guzman, Contributor / February 11, 2019
Song after placid song, the audience was driven to a weary lull from which Jenkins struggled to regain their lost energy and enthusiasm.
Maeve (Emma Mackey), Otis (Asa Butterfield), and Adam (Connor Swindells) in "Sex Education"
“Sex Education” Redefines a Genre
By Lucas Du / February 11, 2019
Netflix’s "Sex Education" manages to find its own niche by thoughtfully teasing apart the thing on every high schooler’s mind: sex.
The artist and activist offers a free alternative audio tour to the exhibition on her website.
Behind the Floating World, the Weight of Reality
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / February 7, 2019
Activist Michelle Hartney offers alternative tour audio highlighting the neglected histories of oppression behind the ukiyo-e paintings in a recently closed Art Institute exhibit.
Norman Lewis' Afternoon, Oil on Canvas
Finding Solidarity At The Smart
By Lynn Chong and Christine Yan / February 4, 2019
Last Monday, the Smart Museum opened its doors to its annual Winter Opening, inviting viewers to dive into the racially charged, the politically motivated, and the expressively abstract.
Rent Live on Fox
525,600 Minutes of Disappointment
By Claire Schultz / February 4, 2019
After the lead actor of Fox’s Rent Live broke his foot, Fox chose instead to broadcast a pre-taped dress rehearsal, with disappointing results.
-
Balancing Editorial and Audience Pressures in Writing
By Bradley Tian / February 1, 2019
“As a short story writer, I like that feeling of strange uncertainty…If I’m writing a 20-page story and I know the ending by page 2, I get worried,” said Brinkley.
Bruce Willis as David Dunn, James McAvoy as Kevin, and Samuel L. Jackson as Mr. Glass in "Glass"
“Glass” Shatters (Good) Expectations
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / February 1, 2019
Hopes for a worthy sequel to "Unbreakable" are shattered by the next installment in M. Night Shyamalan’s surprise trilogy.
-
Jesse McCartney Returns With New Resolutions
By Jessica Choe / February 1, 2019
Having not released any new material since 2014, “Beautiful Soul” musician Jesse McCartney returns to the spotlight with Resolution Tour.
Performed at the Logan Center for the Arts, "Manufacturing Mischief" satirizes Noam Chomsky, Karl Marx, Elon Musk, and President Drumpf as puppets.
In Chicago, Puppets Take Center Stage
By Kenjiro Lee / January 31, 2019
This year’s Chicago International Puppet Theater Festival showcased a wide variety of puppeteer groups who pushed the medium to its thematic and artistic boundaries.
-
Eve Ewing Discusses Racial Dynamics in Education System
By June Villers / January 28, 2019
It’s an attitude of “I’m not trying to keep you out, I’m just trying to keep what I have,” said Ewing.
-
Grad Student Shreya Preeti Discusses Her New EP
By Laura Chen / January 28, 2019
“This is kind of my goal: to make music not normally heard by the mass but still digestible.”
Du Coudray uses diagrams of the fetus in utero to help midwives-in-training see both the anatomical and emotional factors at play during pregnancy.
Embryonic Enigmas and Fetal Fantasies at Special Collections
By Anna Aguiar Kosicki / January 24, 2019
“The Fetus in Utero” investigates bias, practicality, and symbolism in the history of fetal visual culture.
“57th Street Booksand the Seminary Co-OpinChicago’s Hyde Park neighborhood are two of my favorite bookstores in the world" writes Lohier on his blog.
Trauma and Tarot Intersect in “Radiant Night”
By Brooke Nagler / January 24, 2019
The circumstances of war and its consequences fascinate him: What does society expect from veterans after they have endured such tragic and grueling situations?
James Blake
James Blake Reappears With the Exceptional “Assume Form”
By Julian Stuart-Burns / January 24, 2019
James Blake’s new album “Assume Form” is simultaneously a departure from previous and a return to form.
Snail Mail
Snail Mail Effortlessly Balances Youth and Maturity at Wrigleyville
By Christine Yan / January 24, 2019
Though only 19 years old, Lindsey Jordan of Snail Mail sings beyond her years.
La Boheme at the Lyric Opera in Chicago
The Firecracker Flair of La Bohéme
By Jessica Choe / January 24, 2019
“Blessed with an aptitude for comedy and finely honed by practice, this couple stole the night.”
King Princess at the Metro
Jesus Is a Lesbian and Pussy Is God
By Zoe Bean / January 24, 2019
The concert captured what makes King Princess important to a lot of young, gay women: she represents them in a way that feels refreshingly accessible.
Still Woozy performed at Scubas Tavern on Thursday Night.
Sven Gamsky of Feed Me Jack Is Still Good as Still Woozy
By Lucas Du / January 21, 2019
The solo project from singer-songwriter Sven Gamsky is a psychedelic departure from his math-rock origins.
It’s a Small World After All: the Neubauer Collegium’s Exhibit on Visual Arts in Literature
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / January 21, 2019
The Neubauer Collegium’s newest exhibit explores the phenomenon of certain, enduring images in the publishing industry.
Uchicago professor Ling Ma spoke about her book "Severance" at the Seminary Co-op.
Professor Ling Ma Presents “Severance” to a Packed Seminary Co-Op
By Claire Schultz / January 21, 2019
Assistant professor Ling Ma packed the Seminary Co-Op for an intimate reading from her novel, "Severance," which was named a "New York Times" notable book in 2018.
Chaon Cross as Rosalind Franklin in "Photograph 51"
“Photograph 51” Is Worth a Thousand Words
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / January 21, 2019
A Court Theatre production pays homage to the female scientist responsible for the discovery of the double helix structure of DNA.
In "Health Club", the relationship between space and the human condition is far from unidirectional: space shapes humans as much as humans carve out space.
Hyde Park Art Center’s “Health Club” Exhibition Is Not Just for Pre-Meds
By Lynn Chong / January 17, 2019
The exhibition explores “placemaking: the human act of creating spaces that fulfill an emotional or practical need to connect with each other.”
Nick Bottom (T.R. Knight) attracts the affection of fairy queen Titania (Alexandra Silber) with her attendant First Fairy (Adrienne Storrs)
Shakespearean Eye Candy
By Jessica Choe / January 17, 2019
Although impressive in scope and grandeur, set design and costuming in the Chicago Shakespeare Company’s production detracted from the substance of its script.

Post-Apocalyptic UChicago Dorms and Bombed Bridges at Theater [24]
By Olenka Wellisz / January 17, 2019
A UChicago tradition, this quarterly production of Theater [24] captivated its audience with dramatic flair and absurdist humor.
Members of the ensemble Black String pose with an eclectic array of instruments both ancient and modern.
Black String Ensemble Treads Line Between Ancient and Modern
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / January 17, 2019
The Korean music group blends sounds from old and new instruments, creating possibilities for cross-cultural harmonies.
-
Photo Essay: UChicago Maya 2019
By Jeremy Lindenfeld / January 14, 2019
The campus dance group UChicago Maya held their annual performance last weekend at the Logan Center.
Associate professor of art history Claudia Brittenham spoke about ancient Mesoamerican codices in the Logan Center gallery exhibit "Mariana Castillo Deball: Petlacoatl."
Counting the Days on Ancient Mesoamerican Calendars with Claudia Brittenham
By Bradley Tian / January 14, 2019
Art Historian Claudia Brittenham shed light on the Mesoamerican perception of time underlying Mariana Castillo Deball’s exhibit, "Petlacoatl."
(left to right) Ross Gasworth, Iryna Krechkovsky, and Kevin Kwan Loucks of Trio Céleste.
Trio Céleste Dazzles at Mandel Hall
By Brandon Zang / January 14, 2019
UChicago Presents brought Trio Céleste to campus on Friday for a memorable performance of Rachmaninoff, Jalberts, and Tchaikovsky.
Ando Sakura, Sasaki Miyu and Lily Franky in "Shoplifters."
“Shoplifters” Quietly Steals Our Hearts
By Susie Xu / January 14, 2019
"Shoplifters" takes on questions about what binds a family together under economic stress.
"The Favourite" received five Golden Globe Award Nominations, including Best Actress for Olivia Colman, who played Anne, Queen of Great Britain.
“The Favourite” Wins Over the Queen, and the Audience
By Alison Gill / January 10, 2019
With his unique filmmaking techniques and a stellar cast, "The Favourite" stands out as much more than a typical period piece.
Although the horror film dominated internet and meme culture, it proved generic and failed to excite or scare.
Bird Box Fails to Think Outside the Box
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / January 10, 2019
With mediocre acting and an unrealized concept, the hype around Bird Box is confounding.

Jakob Leventhal on Forging His Own Identity as a Musician
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / December 19, 2018
“I had a moment where I was recording the record when I listened to one of the songs and I was like, this doesn’t really sound like anyone but me.”
A painting from "One Hundred Looks of Various Women," 1816, by Utagawa Toyokuni
Art Institute Soars With Paintings of the Floating World
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / December 19, 2018
Currently on display at the Art Institute is an exhibition exploring the evolution of Japanese beauty standards and cultural politics through 17th–19th century ukiyo-e paintings.
-
Joffrey Ballet Restages The Nutcracker in 1893 Chicago
By Jessica Choe / December 19, 2018
The friendly picture of hardworking friends and family sharing genuine kinship and the American Dream around a merry hearth fire made its way into this late 1800s classic.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / December 3, 2018
Where to go and what to do.
Claudio's sister Isabella (Sabrina Sternberg) and Claudio's friend Lucio (Franziska Harling) in "Measure for Measure"
Dean’s Men Measure Misfortune With Humor
By Olenka Wellisz / December 3, 2018
The Dean's Men production of Shakespeare's "Measure for Measure" sets the play in the 1890's, combining equal parts dark humor and dire tragedy.
The movie was saturated with bright colors, Disney-themed Easter eggs, and references to modern Internet culture.
Friendship and Pop Culture Unite in “Ralph Breaks the Internet”
By Jessica Choe / December 3, 2018
Full of throwback Disney nods and cute Internet culture references, the film under-develops its central premise.
Director Barbara Schubert conducts the UChicago Symphony Orchestra.
UChicago Symphony Orchestra Displays the Power of Prokofiev
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / December 3, 2018
The UChicago Symphony Orchestra and guest soloist William Hagen, delivered a suspenseful performance of Prokofiev on Saturday.
The plastic molds made for the portable museums were modeled after the Joe and Rika Mansueto Library.
When Museums Fit in Boxes: Mariana Castillo Deball and “This Is Not a Bomb”
By Jad Dahshan / December 3, 2018
Last Wednesday, the Oriental Institute and Special Collections Research Center received two portable museums from a “random confederation of unlike-minded vagrants”.
Created by director of "12 Years a Slave" Steve McQueen and "Gone Girl" author Gillian Flynn, "Widows" features Viola Davis and Liam Neeson among its protagonists.
The Gritty Political Battle of “Widows”
By Noah Levine / December 3, 2018
12 Years a Slave director Steve McQueen employs masterful technique in his newest project.
Winter is ascending on Chicago
Photo Essay: Winter Icicles
By Jeremy Lindenfeld / December 3, 2018
As trees lose leaves, ice and snow emerge on the landscape.
Eddy Chen (left) and Brett Yang (right) form the Australian comic/musician duo TwoSet Violin.
TwoSet Violin Perfects Their Practice
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / November 29, 2018
Combining classical music and comedic stunts, the Australian duo brought virtuosic flair to Nichols Concert Hall last Sunday.
-
A “Familiar” Tale of Family and Love
By Kenjiro Lee / November 29, 2018
“Hilarity and drama ensue” as a family attempts to perform a tradition wedding ceremony.
-
Uncommon Interview: Sophie Hoyt, Fourth-year and Actress
By Bradley Tian / November 29, 2018
Hoyt discusses modern inclusive casting, getting into character, and her postgrad plans.
The performers were  (right to left): Ella Frederickson, Matthew Bonanno, Erika Steiner, Gideon McCarty, Alisa Boland, Priya Gandhi, and Ethan MacCumber.
Pop Songs and Porn: Off-Off Campus Delivers A Duet
By Sebastian Von Stauffenberg and Lynn Chong / November 26, 2018
Off-Off Campus was both absurd and relatable in their recent music-themed show.
Alagbé's "Yellow Negroes and Other Imaginary Creatures" was only recently translated to English.
Immigration Through a Taxi Driver’s Eyes: Yvan Alagbé Discusses his Comic Book
By Zoe Williams / November 26, 2018
French comic book artist Yvan Alagbé spoke at the Seminary Co-Op about his book "Yellow Negroes and Other Imaginary Creatures", which focuses on the immigrant experience in France.
OnePointFive is American rapper Aminé's second studio album, released on August 15, 2018 to critical acclaim.
Don’t Be a Stranger, Let Aminé Be Your Dr. Whoever.
By Eric Guzman, Contributor / November 26, 2018
American rapper Aminé’s performance did not shy away from addressing issues such as mental health and toxic masculinity.
MCA's "West by Midwest" exhibit opened on November 17.
MCA Exhibition Maps Out Midwestern Beat History
By Matt Herskowitz, Contributor / November 26, 2018
Titled "West by Midwest", the exhibition follows several 1950s artists as they leave the Midwest for California, then a creative hub for arts schools and galleries.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / November 26, 2018
Where to go and what to do.
-
Waka Flocka Flame Ignites at MAB Fall Show
By Zoe Bean / November 19, 2018
MAB brought rapper Waka Flocka Flame to campus for an energizing and rowdy fall show.
“Alexander Fiterstein and Friends” Transcend the Bounds of Mandel Hall
By Brandon Zang and Julian Stuart-Burns / November 19, 2018
The ensemble delivered an impressive performance of “Quartet for the End of Time”, a particularly challenging work requiring exceptional deftness and cooperation between the performers.
-
“The Crimes of Grindelwald”: A Failed Magic Trick
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / November 19, 2018
Although leading actor Eddie Redmayne delivered an endearing performance, it was not enough to make up for the discontinuous, rapportless plot.
--
With Half-Baked New Characters, is “Bake Off” on the Decline?
By Breck Radulovic / November 19, 2018
Though charming as ever, the new judge and host team of "The Great British Bake Off" have trouble living up to those they replaced.
-
“ICONIC: Black Panther” Exhibits Art as Part of a Social Movement.
By Susie Xu / November 19, 2018
To face the piece is to stand face to face with the dead, recognize the history of oppression that led to their murders—which lives on today—and realize the firm necessity for revolution.
UChicago Chamber Orchestra Brings Storytelling to Center Stage
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / November 19, 2018
Conductor Matthew Sheppard and guest performers Jeffrey Bay and Patrice Michaels delivered a delightful performance last Saturday at the Logan Center.
-
Gravity Pairs Beckons Toward Beacon’s Future
By Alexandre LaBossiere-Barrera / November 15, 2018
The album is “definitively and unmistakably Beacon”.
-
Frankenstein Sans Dialogue: A Twist on the Classic Story
By May Huang and Sanjana Venkittu / November 15, 2018
Frankenstein combines elements of shadow puppetry, live silent film, and stop-motion animation to tell the many layers of the story.
Ms. Obama tweeted photo, with caption: "It seems like yesterday that @BarackObama and I were taking our girls to @57thstreetbooks store. Today, I was there with a book of my own. Thanks to everyone who braved the cold and stopped by. #IAmBecoming"
Michelle Obama Graces the Seminary Co-Op
By Alina Kim, Arts Editor / November 15, 2018
“When called a personal hero, she broke out into a huge grin and thanked everyone for their love and support.”
Stan Lee's wit was a signature of his comic world.
Stan Lee Infused His Magic Into the Adult World
By Jessica Choe / November 15, 2018
Stan Lee, the Marvel comic book giant, created worlds through, and occasionally in, his stories.
Sweet Honey in the Rock performing in 2007.
Sweet Honey in the Rock Takes Rockefeller Chapel to Church
By Zoe’ Williams / November 15, 2018
"The all-female Black a capella group focuses on entertaining and educating audiences about the injustices that plague the world."
Jess Price, the frontwoman of Campdogzz
Interview with Campdogzz frontwoman Jess Price
By Kevin Hassett, Contributor / November 15, 2018
“In this time in music it’s really hard. There are a lot of really great bands that have been doing it a while…. We were lucky that at…the beginning we just had so many great friends.”
--
Muse is Trapped in a Simulation of Mediocrity in Latest Album
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / November 12, 2018
Muse’s "Simulation Theory" fails to get past the band’s characteristic failings.
Jodie Whittaker's casting as the first female Doctor sparked controversy among fans.
The Woman Who Could’ve Fallen a Little Better: “Doctor Who” Midseason Review
By Brandon Zang / November 12, 2018
The new season of “Doctor Who” stays loyal to the previous showrunners’ work, despite radical casting.
--
35 Years Later, Violent Femmes is Still Challenging Norms
By Kevin Hassett / November 12, 2018
The long-running folk-punk band performed a uniquely chaotic set at the Vic last weekend.
Rami Malek plays the role of iconic frontman Freddie Mercury in "Bohemian Rhapsody".
Bohemian Rhapsody: A Cursory Nostalgia Ride
By Jeremy Lindenfeld / November 12, 2018
While the Freddie Mercury biopic does not lack flaws, it offers viewers a new perspective into the iconic singer’s life.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / November 12, 2018
Where to go and what to do.
The whimsical setting of "Siegfried" recasts the political implications of the controversial opera.
Lyric Opera Delivers a Thrilling, Modern “Siegfried”
By Bryan McGuiggin, Contributor / November 8, 2018
This fall, a re-imagined Wagner comes to Chicago.
Dozens of fruit pies line the table, sliced and ready for eating
Photo Essay: South Side Pie Challenge 2018
By Laura Sieh / November 8, 2018
Hyde Park comes out to enjoy the fruits of its creative pie-making community at the South Side Pie Challenge.
-
Josh Groban Underwhelms at United Center
By Adrián Mandeville / November 8, 2018
Groban was joined by fellow musical theater alum Idina Menzel.
Maggie Rogers is on the rise, playing to a sold-out crowd at the Riviera last Tuesday.
Maggie Rogers’s Warmth Can Melt Alaskan Glaciers
By Perrin Davidson / November 5, 2018
Singer Maggie Rogers shared her humble and carefree personality with Chicago at the Riviera on Thursday.
(right to left) Aliza Oppenheim, Cyrus Pacht and Leo Alvarez in "The Sandbox" by Edward Albee, directed by Kendall Phillips
A Weekend of Wonder: A Review of University Theater’s Workshops
By Brandon Zang / November 5, 2018
University Theatre presented a myriad of performances ranging from witty social commentary to beautiful adaptations of folktales during their Weekend of Workshops.
This "Suspiria" remake is filled with body horror and gore that will make your skin crawl.
Cold War Covens and Witchcraft: “Suspiria” Laces Its Aesthetics With Politics
By Noah Levine / November 5, 2018
Luca Guadagnino’s remake of "Suspiria" brings enough physical horror to satisfy its twenty-first-century audience.
Phoebe Bridgers, Julien Baker, and Lucy Dacus released an album under their new group name, boygenius.
Doing Supergroups Right: Boygenius Is Greater Than the Sum of Its Parts
By Julian Stuart-Burns / November 5, 2018
Indie rockers Julien Baker, Lucy Dacus, and Phoebe Bridgers prove that a supergroup can soundgreater than the sum of its parts on their collaborative self-titled EP, "boygenius."
Parreno with an exhibit of his work at the Serralves Museum of Contemporary Art
Philippe Parreno’s Unique Cinematic Vision Showcased at the Logan Center
By Tomi Kolapo / November 2, 2018
Parreno puts one of his personal philosophies—“Art is not impositional, it is presentational”—into practice.
-
Joji Moves Away from YouTube with “Ballads 1”
By Lucas Du / November 1, 2018
"Joji feels like a new artist."
Maestro Daniel Barenboim
Maestro Daniel Barenboim Returns to Chicago
By Brandon Zang / November 1, 2018
Before his upcoming performances, Barenboim speaks about conducting, language, and the way that music overpowers cultural tensions.
Recent graduate Dani Wieder discusses directorial strategies
A Conversation With Alumna Theatre Director Dani Wieder
By Lynn Chong / November 1, 2018
“Though grocery errands are not usually considered under a director’s job description, it was Wieder’s ability to stay grounded in her artistic instincts that allowed her to infuse a playful energy into her play.”
Melissa McCarthy plays a lovable schemer in "Can You Ever Forgive Me?"
McCarthy Needs No Forgiveness for “Can You Ever Forgive Me?”
By Alison Gill / November 1, 2018
Lee may be one of the most likeable alcoholic cynics to ever grace the big screen, and it’s due to McCarthy’s performance.
Yesomi Umolu
Yesomi Umolu on Directing the 2019 Chicago Architecture Biennial and Being a Global Citizen
By Sebastian Von Stauffenberg / November 1, 2018
Umolu discusses architectural tradition and “architecture as an international dialogue.”
Seong-Jin Cho
Seong-Jin Cho Dazzles in a Promising Chicago Debut
By Rena Slavin / November 1, 2018
“Seong-Jin Cho delivered a truly impeccable, if at times self-indulgent, performance. At 24 years old, he is sure to be an exciting figure in the classical piano world for decades to come.”
Gerard Butler in "Hunter Killer"
Entertainment is Dead in the Water in “Hunter Killer”
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / October 29, 2018
Full of cliched motifs and mindless action sequences, "Hunter Killer" is the worst type of bad movie.
Tim Curry in "The Rocky Horror Picture Show"
Top Ten Halloween Movies to Celebrate Spooky Season
By Olenka Wellisz / October 29, 2018
In honor of All Hallows’ Eve, "The Maroon" brings you a list of Halloween movies galore, ranging from "Goosebumps"-style cringe-fests to goosebump-inducing horror flicks.
Mitski's "Be The Cowboy" tour is mesmerizingly powerful
Mitski Takes Control
By Kevin Hassett, Contributor / October 29, 2018
Mitski played with intention and grace on Thursday at the Vic Theatre.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 29, 2018
Where to go and what to do.
"Swan Lake" at the Joffrey Ballet
Swan Lake Soars a Little Too High
By Zoe Bean and Jade Yan / October 29, 2018
Whilst the ballet certainly did feel as if it were caught between two worlds, this unfortunately did not unravel in a good way.
--
“In Search of Greatness:” A Sports Documentary That Isn’t Really About Sports
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / October 29, 2018
The Maroon interviewed director Gabe Polsky about his documentary, through which he strives to inspire people to reach for greatness, creativity, and fulfillment.
Chicago Fire Department from 100 feet in the air
Photo Essay: Hyde Park Fire Station
By Jeremy Lindenfeld / October 29, 2018
The station itself was impressive, but the spirit of the firefighters was even more so.

“Sliced Bread” Magazine Celebrates 11 Years
By Atman Mehta, Contributor / October 29, 2018
Sliced Bread celebrates the launch of their autumn issue, one of the largest issues in the magazine's history
The Smart Museum's "The Time is Now" exhibit recalibrates our understanding of art and politics in postwar Chicago.
Art Starts Here: Symposium Celebrates South Side Scene
By Zoe’ Williams and Andre Castro / October 25, 2018
Educators, activists, and artists gathered for "Unfinished Business! presents The South Side and Chicago Art".
-
“Beautiful Boy” Unveils Ugly Truths
By Sebastian Von Stauffenberg / October 25, 2018
Adapted from a pair of memoirs, the film touches on intimate topics of family and self-worth.
-
The Other Will Returns to Shake up Shakespeare
By Alexander Oreskes / October 25, 2018
"Will Kemp, the fool of the Bard, trod the boards once more."
-
Florence + The Machine Take Fans High as Hope at United Center Concert
By Jad Dahshan / October 25, 2018
The British band enchanted the audience at the United Center on October 19, singing for love and hope and speaking against toxic masculinity.
-
38th Annual Humanities Day Celebrates the Life of the Mind
By Kiera Yu and Alina Kim / October 25, 2018
Humanities Day has gathered hundreds of community members in celebration of debates, history, and discovery for nearly 40 years.
Kiah Stern (left) and Catherine LeFrere in "Indecent."
In “Indecent,” Art Provides Solace While Also Prompting Homophobic Backlash
By Sebastian Von Stauffenberg / October 23, 2018
Mini theatrical dances are juxtaposed with the somber reality; glitter stands next to ashes as the lives of these characters constantly shift over the course of the production.
Greta Van Fleet’s “Anthem of the Peaceful Army” Can’t Save Rock ’n’ Roll
By Kevin Hassett, Contributor / October 22, 2018
I have become convinced that Greta Van Fleet are the four horsemen of the apocalypse—that they are the death of rock ’n’ roll.
Gaopeng Tang's "The Road Not Taken," a Western set in China's Gobi Desert
Chicago International Film Festival: Four Promising Films
By Zoe Bean and Perri Wilson / October 22, 2018
Four film reviews offer a glimpse into the festival’s wide-ranging selection.
Sarah Koenig spoke at the Logan Center last Thursday.
Serial Storytelling with Sarah Koenig
By Alexis Franciszkowicz, Contributor / October 22, 2018
UChicago alum Sarah Koenig AB ‘90 discusses her podcast, truth, and investigative journalism with Rachel DeWoskin at the Logan Center.
Peach Pit played at Schubas last Wednesday.
Peach Pit Turn on the Charm at Schubas Tavern
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / October 22, 2018
Indie pop outfit Peach Pit demonstrate sincere rapport with audience at their Schubas Tavern gig.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 22, 2018
Where to go and what to see.
The progressive metal band released their third album recently.
Polyphia Summons Satanic Swagger in “New Levels New Devils”
By Julia Paz, Contributor / October 22, 2018
The progressive metal band’s latest release marks a more mature effort at merging different genres and collaborating with other musicians.
-
“Mo Bamba” to MUDBOY: Sheck Wes Debuts His First Album
By Lucas Du / October 18, 2018
Sheck Wes's debut album is a promising effort from a rising star.
-
The Hate U Give and the Hate We Give Back
By Eric-Antonio Guzman / October 18, 2018
It is as heartbreaking as it is heartwarming to witness the various ways in which Stenberg portrays her character as a victim of a divided world, struggling to define herself through her clothing, language, and friendships.
88rising Brings the Heat
By Kiera Yu / October 18, 2018
88rising had a “dynamic stage presence, relatable lyrics, and unique sound, bringing together music styles from the East and West.”
-
Anything But Shrewish: Female Improv Group Reimagines Shakespeare
By Meera Santhanam / October 17, 2018
The Shrews brought the Bard into the 21st century with a feminist twist.
-
In “Warlight”, Michael Ondaatje Illuminates the Darkness and Light of Post-War London
By Bradley Tian / October 17, 2018
The Sri Lankan author spoke at the Sem Co-Op on his latest novel last Thursday.
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 15, 2018
Where to go and what to do
Coetzee spoke at the Regenstein Library last Tuesday.
J. M. Coetzee on Growing Up, Reading, and the Importance of Doubt
By May Huang, Arts Editor / October 15, 2018
Nobel Prize winning author joined the Neubauer Collegium on Tuesday to deliver an essay on his experience with The Children’s Encyclopedia.
--
New Kids on the Block: An Interview with the First-Time Actors of First-Time Director Jonah Hill’s “Mid90s”
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / October 15, 2018
"The Maroon" sat down with the first-time actors of Jonah Hill’s "Mid90s" to discuss the experience of going from pro-skater to actor.
-
A Venomous Review of Venom
By Wlad Sarmiento / October 15, 2018
Sony’s latest adaptation is an unfortunate throwback to early 2000s comic book movies.
DaBoii and Slimmy B of SOB X RBE at Bottom Lounge last Wednesday.
SOB X RBE Flare Up but Fizzle Out at Bottom Lounge
By Zoe Bean / October 15, 2018
SOB X RBE put on a high-energy, but short-lived performance at the Bottom Lounge on Wednesday.
-
MASSEDUCTION to MassEducation: St. Vincent Strips Down
By Wahid Al Mamun, Arts Editor / October 15, 2018
St Vincent’s latest album is a masterfully pared back take on her 2017 “MASSEDUCTION”
From left to right, Harumi Rhodes, András Fejér, Geraldine Walther, and Edward Dusinberre
Takács Quartet Sets Bar High for Concert Season
By Brandon Zang / October 15, 2018
UChicago Presents brought the Takács Quartet to Mandel Hall for a dynamic performance that showed off the string players’ musicality.
Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga in "A Star is Born"
A Star Actor and Singer are Born
By Johnny Parry / October 11, 2018
Viewers might not find "A Star is Born" fully engaging, but most will agree that it's musical performances are truly spectacular.
Ryan Gosling in "First Man"
First Man Doesn’t Stick the Landing
By Noah Levine / October 11, 2018
Armstrong comes across as less human than the android Gosling played in "Blade Runner 2049" last year.
Theater [24]’s Jovial—and Bizarre—Humor
By Olenka Wellisz / October 11, 2018
Theater [24] was a hilarious time, and maybe even more of a national treasure than the giant ball of lint which served as the backdrop of the evening’s first play, "Tuba Practice".
Students spend the night camping outside the Smart Museum to be first on line for the Art to Live with program.
Photo Essay: Art to Live With 2018
By Adrián Mandeville / October 10, 2018
The Smart Museum loans students works from artist like Pablo Picasso and Joan Miró.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 8, 2018
What to do and where to go.
Ed (Terry Bell) struggles to connect with his son Christopher (Cedric Mays)
A Curious Incident at the Steppenwolf
By Alexia Bacigalupi, Arts Editor / October 8, 2018
Endearing and skillfully-acted, the Steppenwolf’s production of “The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time” is a thoughtful adaptation of the acclaimed novel.
Floridian rapper Denzel Curry.
Denzel Curry Commands the Stage at the Bottom Lounge
By Luis Velasco, Contributor / October 8, 2018
Coral City rapper Denzel Curry brings a Floridian flare to Chicago concert.
Ben Howard performed at the Riviera last Wednesday.
Ben Howard Lets Chicago in on his Talent
By Perrin Davidson / October 8, 2018
Award-winning musician Ben Howard shifts the limelight from loud stage personas to authentic music-making at the Riviera Theater.
--
BoJack Horseman Balances Humor With Biting Self-criticism
By Michael Sherman / October 4, 2018
BoJack Horseman digs deep in its latest season, delivering a more nuanced storyline.
A work by Suellen Rocca, a member of Hairy Who
Hairy Who? The Art Institute Has the Answer
By Perri Wilson / October 4, 2018
The Art Institute's fall exhibit is an irreverent retrospective of works from a collective of unorthodox artists.
Cassette Day Makes Retro Modern Again
By David North / October 4, 2018
A retro music form proves its lasting appeal at the annual Cassette Store Day.
-
CSO Season Opens With a Cautionary Tale from Russian Composers
By Rena Slavin / October 4, 2018
Ricardo Muti opened the Chicago Symphony Orchestra's 2018-2019 season with a compelling, unorthodox program featuring a variety of Russian composers.
Obama's favorite restaurant, Valois.
A Cheat Sheet for Where to Eat in Hyde Park
By Neha Lingareddy / September 24, 2018
Where to eat in Hyde Park, according to students and an app analysis.
Hozier's North American tour includes stops in New York (pictured here), Chicago, LA, and more.
Hozier Cried Power at the Riviera Theatre
By May Huang, Arts Editor / September 23, 2018
The "Take me to Church" singer performed at the Riviera Theatre on Friday, September 21.
United Center was filled with Twenty One Pilots fans on January 28.
Arts Off Campus: Just a CTA Ride Away
By Arts Staff / September 22, 2018
Venture beyond campus to explore Chicago's lively art scene.
The incoming president of Le Vorris & Vox Circus, Sabrina Civale (flyer), and Tyler Araujo (base) perform partner acrobatics.
Arts on Campus: Where Fun Comes to Sing, Act, Dance, and More
By Arts Staff / September 22, 2018
A preview of this year's vibrant on-campus art scene.
-
“Big Red Machine” Assembles Music for the People
By Perrin Davidson / September 11, 2018
The brainchild of Justin Vernon and Aaron Dessner, Big Red Machine believes in the collaborative power of musicians.
Students with artwork from the "Art to Live With" collection.
Smart Museum Matches Students With World-Class Art
By May Huang, Arts Editor / August 29, 2018
150 students will have the chance to rent a piece from the "Art to Live With" Collection.
Sam Smith performs at the United Center for "The Thrill of it All" tour
Sam Smith Burns Past Awkwardness to Grace
By Rebecca Julie and Brooke Nagler / August 23, 2018
-
The Weeknd closed out Saturday night on Grant Park stage
Rising Artists Shined Under Spotlight at Lollapalooza 2018
By Pete Grieve and Brooke Nagler / August 12, 2018
The 4-day musical festival in the heart of Chicago, Lollapalooza took over Grant Park on August 2nd-5th
Lollapalooza attracted more than 100,000 each day to the music festival in Grant Park on August 2-5.
Photo Essay: Lollapalooza 2018
By Pete Grieve and Brooke Nagler / August 11, 2018
-
Ms. Lauryn Hill was Sunday night's headliner.
Pitchfork Set the Stage for Artists, and Set an Example for Music Festivals
By David North / July 30, 2018
This year's Pitchfork Music Festival took place in Union Park from July 20–22.
-
Hannah Gadsby Makes you Laugh and Listen up in “Nanette,” a Netflix Stand-up Special
By Deblina Mukherjee / July 14, 2018
"Nanette," an hour-long comedy special, premiered on Netflix in June.
Tame Impala will headline Friday's show.
Previewing Pitchfork 2018
By David North / July 14, 2018
Pitchfork Music Festival will take place from July 20 to July 22 in Union Park.
Eva and Franco Mattes, BEFNOED, 2016
Visual Reality Meets Visual Art in the MCA’s “I Was Raised on the Internet”
By Amanda Wong / July 4, 2018
"I Was Raised on the Internet" examines life in the digital age.
=
Diamond-Studded Cast Steals the Show in “Ocean’s 8”
By Renee Wah / June 24, 2018
A reboot of the Ocean's franchise,"Ocean's 8" featured an all-female heist team.

Voices in Your Head celebrates growth and history in 20th anniversary concert
By Audrey Teo, Videographer / June 18, 2018
A few weeks ago, The Maroon joined acapella group Voices in Your Head for a rehearsal as they prepare for their twentieth anniversary concert.
-
CHVRCHES Revive and Renounce Their Synth-Pop Roots in “Love is Dead”
By Perrin Davidson / June 8, 2018
The English band's latest album enters new sociopolitical territory, but often falls back on clichéd themes.
From left to right: fourth-years Cecilia Boyers, Hannia Frias, and third-year Sabrina Civale
Le Vorris & Vox Presents: The Master and Margarita
By Zoe Kaiser / June 3, 2018
Le Vorris & Vox Circus adapted The Master and Margarita for their last showcase of the year.
Yesomi Umolu at the Chicago Cultural Center.
Meet Yesomi Umolu, the Chicago Architecture Biennial’s New Artistic Director
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / May 31, 2018
The Maroon spoke with Yesomi Umolu about her plans for next year's Biennial.
The Second City invited an audience member named Ada onstage for a sketch.
The Second City Brings Politics and Hysterics to Campus
By Eric-Antonio Guzman / May 28, 2018
Second City came to campus on Friday to a lively audience of University students.
-
The Underground Collective Blossoms at Last Showcase of the Quarter
By Brooke Nagler / May 28, 2018
In their final showcase of the academic year, the Underground Collective put on a performance driven by genuine passion and talent.
Image credits go to Ronald Brown of Brown Digital Design (browndigitaldesign.com/).
Senior Spotlight: Shubha Vedula
By Julia Paz, Contributor / May 28, 2018
The Maroon interviews singer-songwriter Shuba about her musical background, college experience, and aspirations.
-
Exhibit A: Finals Week Edition
By Arts Staff / May 28, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
Deadpool 2 Proves That Second Time’s the Charm
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / May 28, 2018
"Deadpool 2" is even better than the first one, and improves on the humor, action and acting.

Artscast: 48 Hour Film Fest
By Parker Mee / May 26, 2018
This week on the Artscast, we cover the recent 48 Hour Film Festival from the perspective of the organizers and the crews creating the films. Hosted by: Parker Mee Featuring: Quinn Kane and Matthew Robinson Edited...

-
Photo Essay: What was Doc Films?
By Finn Jubak / May 24, 2018
In photos, Doc Volunteer Finn Jubak documents "a sliver of a sliver of a sliver" of Doc Films.
From left to right: Empress Of, Princess Nokia, and Carly Rae Jepsen.
Queens Take the Stage at Summer Breeze
By Brooke Nagler and Ivan Ost / May 24, 2018
"This year’s Summer Breeze wasn’t a night of light dancing, it was a storm raging through Hutch courtyard."

Summer Breeze Features Carly Rae Jepsen
By Audrey Teo, Videographer / May 22, 2018
Summer Breeze featured its first all-female lineup this year, with headliner Carly Rae Jepsen, Empress Of, and Princess Nokia rocking the stage.
-
Chrysanthemum Tran Reclaims Her Roots Through Poetry
By Brooke Nagler / May 21, 2018
Chrysanthemum Tran discussed how her identity factors into her work and her personal relationships.
-
Lake Street Dive Makes a Splash at Thalia Hall
By Perrin Davidson / May 21, 2018
Lake Street Dive played at Thalia Hall to an audience full of fans already familiar with the band's newest release, "Free Yourself Up."
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / May 21, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
“The Originalist”: A Novel Twist on Scalia at the Court
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / May 21, 2018
John Strand's "The Originalist," now playing at the Court Theatre, challenges partisan lines through a fictionalized story about Antonin Scalia.
-
Meet Thomas Comerford, Visiting Lecturer and Indie Musician
By Gen Bryant / May 21, 2018
Thomas Comerford is a university professor and indie musician.

Students and alumni reflect on favorite moments and items from Scav
By Audrey Teo, Videographer / May 20, 2018
A small glimpse into the creativity and chaos that ensues over the four days of Scav.
CSO Mead Composers-in-Residence Samuel Adams and Elizabeth Ogonek pose in the Harris Theater.
A Very Salonen Send-Off for CSO Composers-in-Residence
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 20, 2018
The CSO’s MusicNOW series is celebrating the end of its 20th season, and its final season with Mead Composers-in-Residence Samuel Adams and Elizabeth Ogonek.
-
UBallet’s “Don Quixote” Enchants With Love and Windmills
By Rosemarie Ho / May 17, 2018
Exquisite performances from veterans and newcomers alike -- not to mention an enormous prop windmill -- propelled UBallet's spring show to elegant new heights.
Fourth-year and former Doc Films president Hasti Soltani (left) leads a Q&A with Bo Burnham (right)
“Eighth Grade,” and Bo Burnham, Come to Doc Films
By Deblina Mukherjee / May 17, 2018
With his film "Eighth Grade," the YouTube star, playwright, poet, rapper, and songwriter becomes a writer and director, too.
-
Arctic Monkeys Aim for the Stars—and Nearly Hit
By Matt Herskowitz, Contributor / May 17, 2018
The Arctic Monkey's new album is a high-concept piece that sounds like it was recorded light-years from the planet earth. It's a shame that it's a little too glib for its own good.
Scav Olympics took place on Saturday.
Where Fun Comes to Scav: 2018 Edition
By Yao Xen Tan and Alexandra Nisenoff / May 14, 2018
The University’s annual scavenger hunt took place May 9 through 13.
Fatima Khan and Shreya Sood pose next to their artwork.
“Betiyaan” Captures South Asian-American Identity in Snapshots
By Jad Dahshan / May 14, 2018
Fatima Khan and Shreya Sood set up a photography exhibit in Sanctuary Cafe to open dialogue about the complexity of the Desi identity post-immigration.
Designs by fourth-year Aleksandra Majka.
FOTA: A Week of Fresh, Original, Talented Artistry
By Zoe Bean / May 14, 2018
Festival of the Arts just wrapped up SpringFest, their Spring quarter art show series. Executive Director Kaesha Freyaldenhoven weighs in.
A still from "Searching."
From Small Screen to Silver Screen: An Interview with “Searching” Writers
By Eric-Antonio Guzman / May 14, 2018
"Searching" will debut at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / May 14, 2018
What to do and where to go.
The Bandung Philharmonic during a September 2016 concert.
From Chicago to Bandung: A New Orchestra in Indonesia has Hyde Park Ties
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 13, 2018
The Bandung Philharmonic was founded by pianist Airin Efferin and Hyde Parkers Robert Nordling and Michael Hall.
-
Blue Maroon Bring New Sound to Campus
By Perri Wilson / May 10, 2018
In just a few short months, the new RSO has performed across campus and built a distinctive, energetic performance style. But their mission is broader: to support for campus musicians of all strokes.
-
“Tully” Celebrates Motherhood and All Its Wrinkles
By Zoe Bean / May 10, 2018
The film is a stunning offering from director Jason Reitman and write Diablo Cody, best known for their 2007 bildungsroman "Juno."
-
Joffrey Ballet Puts a Spin on Shakespeare With “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
By Jade Yan / May 7, 2018
The Joffrey Ballet turns a classic Shakespeare play on its head with grace and vivacity.

San E and Mad Clown Bring Korean Hip-Hop to Chicago
By Liana Fu, Contributor / May 7, 2018
South Korean rappers San E and Mad Clown spoke with the Maroon about touring in the U.S. and the differences between Korean and American rap.
-
Smart Museum Exhibit Explores Identity Through Space
By Alexis Franciszkowicz, Contributor / May 7, 2018
The Smart Museum debuted a new exhibit, "The Figure and the Ground", which is part of their new series, "Expanding Narratives".
-
Heroes and Galaxies Converge In “Avengers: Infinity War”
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / May 7, 2018
Marvel's latest movie features it's largest-ever cast of superheroes.
-
Exhibit A
By Maroon Staff / May 7, 2018
What to do and where to go
A still from the film.
Ai Wei Wei Reflects on the Refugee Crisis in “Human Flow”
By Rosemarie Ho / May 7, 2018
Artist and activist Ai Wei Wei came to campus for a Q&A and film screening on April 29.
Listeners wander through the exhibition space, a home-cum-gallery organized by Tricia Van Eck, once a curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art.
Charting “Soundscapes of Color” With Michal Dzitko
By Jad Dahshan / May 3, 2018
A dreamy exhibit space, Dzitko's original compositions, and musical winks at artists from Franz Lizst to Kanye West
-
RBIM Presents: “The Cast”
By Sophia Corning, Contributor / May 3, 2018
Rhythmic Bodies in Motion (RBIM) is a dance troupe on campus.
-
Steve Coleman Plays With Sound, Plays For Community
By Kyle Oleksiuk, Contributor / May 3, 2018
Steve Coleman is the 53rd recipient of the Jesse L. Rosenberger Medal.
-
Roll Away the Known: Lyric Opera’s Jesus Christ Superstar Is Ascendant
By Amanda Wong / May 3, 2018
The Lyric's production features a 28-foot long golden cape, 90 pounds of glitter in each show, and a cast twice the size of the original London show. It's classic glam-rock maximalism, and it works beautifully.

Artists up close: Tia Gilles
By Audrey Fromson / May 1, 2018
-
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 30, 2018
What to do and where to go.
Installation view of "Untitled (Ren Screen)" and "Untitled (05-07)."
Sculptures Speak With Space in Richard Rezac’s Address
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / April 30, 2018
"Address" will be on display through June 17.
-
J. Cole Preaches More Than He Teaches on “KOD”
By Pierre Ledan / April 30, 2018
J. Cole's album, "KOD," dropped on April 20.

Run for Cover Shines in Every Track on “Dawn”
By Genevieve Bryant / April 26, 2018
Run for Cover released "Dawn" last March.
-
Damn Right—Kendrick Lamar Just Won a Pulitzer
By Matt Herskowitz, Contributor / April 26, 2018
Lamar's DAMN. made history when it won the first Pulitzer ever awarded to music that wasn't classical or jazz.
-
Montrose Trio Charms Mandel Hall with Virtuosity
By Rena Slavin / April 26, 2018
The performance was a rousing, spirited finale for UChicago Presents's Classic Concert Series.
Lakeith Stansfield (Cassius "Cash" Green) and Tessa Thompson (Detroit) play an engaged couple in this satire on capitalist America
No Need to Apologize: “Sorry to Bother You” is a Killer
By Kyle Oleksiuk, Contributor / April 23, 2018
Doc Film's early screening of "Sorry to Bother You" revealed a film seeped in symbolism and social critique.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 23, 2018
What to do and where to go.
Tokyo Police Club front man Dave Monks
Matt and Kim are Back and Here to Stay, Almost Everyday
By Zoe Bean / April 23, 2018
Indie duo Matt and Kim played at the Riviera theater on Tuesday. We spoke with drummer Kim Schifino on touring, their new album, and why they're not likely to take time off any time soon.
-
Path to Pulitzer: An Interview With Playwright Martyna Majok (A.B. ’07)
By Emily Lovett / April 22, 2018
Martyna Majok’s play, “Cost of Living,” won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Drama.

Rehearsing in 360 with Men in Drag
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / April 20, 2018
What's it like to be in the midst of a Men in Drag rehearsal?
Noah Sierota plays bass.
From YouTube to Primetime: Echosmith Shines “Bright”
By Eric Guzman, Contributor / April 19, 2018
The Los Angeles trio brought infectious dance anthems, light-up tambourines, and their ever-growing group of fans.
Sheila O. and the copresidents of ACSA.
ACSA Showcases Riches of African and Caribbean Culture
By Patrick Egan, Contributor / April 19, 2018
The cultural show included traditional art, dance, and clothing alongside forms inspired by hip-hop and contemporary Kenyan pop.
John Krasinski stars in the film, which demands that characters approach any noise with the utmost caution.
In “A Quiet Place,” Whispers Frighten More than Screams
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / April 19, 2018
John Krasinki has proven his directorial acumen, crafting a spare, taut thriller.
The cast "Broken Jug" performs on a minimally decorated stage, emphasizing the eerie and deadpan acting and narrative.
Liars and Orange Hair: “The Broken Jug” Revives a Classic
By Zoe Bean / April 19, 2018
"At its core, the play mocks the judicial system by revealing the transitory and fickle nature of blame and culpability—and by examining our propensity to condemn the innocent for the crimes of the guilty."
-
Wong Fu Duo Chats Going Viral and Repping Asian-American Identity
By Yao Wei / April 16, 2018
Last Tuesday, Asian Students' Union brought Philip Wang and Wesley Chan of Wong Fu Productions to campus.
--
Artists Envision Inclusivity in Art With “Engendering Change”
By Brooke Nagler / April 16, 2018
Members of the MTL Collective spoke at the annual "Engendering Change" conference on the power and complexity of action.
-
Cardi B Conquers New Territory with “Invasion of Privacy”
By Zoe Bean / April 16, 2018
Cardi B's debut studio album, "Invasion of Privacy," hits on the inspiring confidence that she's known for, with a taste of something new.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 16, 2018
Where to go and what to do.
Photo Essay: Echosmith Performs at The Metro
By Alexandra Nisenoff / April 16, 2018
American indie pop band Echosmith played at The Metro this past Saturday, featuring songs from their newest album, "Inside a Dream." The band also reprised their debut single "Cool Kids" to a shower of confetti.
-
UC Dancers Perform to Empower in “Rise”
By Arts Staff and Alexandra Nisenoff / April 12, 2018
A photo essay of UC Dancers' "Rise."
Students perform at the third annual Washington Park Arts Festival.
Community and Student Arts Shine at Washington Park
By Jade Yan / April 12, 2018
The third annual Washington Park Arts Festival took place on April 7.
Tye Sheridan plays Wade, who escapes dystopian near-future Earth by adventuring through a glitzy virtual reality.
“Ready Player One” Courts Fans with Nostalgia, But Makes Predictable Moves
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / April 12, 2018
Steven Spielberg brings Ernest Cline's novel to the big screen. It is a flashy procession of familiar science fiction, teenage romance, and references to the 80s.

Artscast, E8: The Chief is Dead, Long Live Black Sam
By Mimansa Dogra / April 11, 2018
On the first episode of the new season of the Artscast, reporter Mimansa Dogra interviews Ben Glover. The rapper known as Black Sam and formerly known as Chief Wicked. Ben talks about the name change and...

-
Cecilia Vicuña Arms her Art with an Artillery of Words
By May Huang, Arts Editor / April 9, 2018
Poet-In-Residence Cecilia Vicuña plays with language to address topics such as violence and truth in a series of drawings titled "PALABRArmas."
“Grownish” shows an Idealistic iGeneration
By Zoe Bean / April 9, 2018
ABC's "Grownish" finishes off a first season of pertinent conversation with an impressively diverse cast.
Nkanga's "On Choices"
Otobong Nkanga Exposes the Scars of Industrialization
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / April 9, 2018
Otobong Nkanga's exhibit, "To Dig a Hole that Collapses Again," now on display at the Museum of Contemporary Art, confronts the way our relationship with nature changes in the aftermath of industrialization.
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 9, 2018
Where to go and what to do
Anderson's newest film was captured using intricate stop-motion.
Isle of Dogs Finds Beauty on Trash Island, but Has a Whiff of Cultural Insensitivity
By Michael Sherman / April 5, 2018
"Isle of Dogs displays Anderson’s ability to create and find the beauty in what is literally garbage."
-
DOVA Artists Exhibit a Multimedia Experience
By Jonathan Mandel and Jad Dahshan / April 5, 2018
Pieces were being installed just an hour before the show. The result was stunning.
-
SASA Stages a Romance, and We Fall in Love
By Lexi Franciszkowicz, Contributor / April 5, 2018
SASA's 31st annual show was a reminder why the RSO's events are among UChicago's most anticipated.
Margot Robbie as Tonya Harding
What’s Up, Doc: Films for Spring Quarter
By Perri Wilson / April 2, 2018
Doc Films' Spring lineup features two directorial retrospectives, a look at both Canadian and Korean cinema, and a series on loss of identity, among others.
A scene from Court Theatre's "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner"
Court Theatre Delivers Commentary With a Side of Comedy
By Leone Fang / April 2, 2018
Court Theatre's "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" balances still-relevant social commentary with humor.
-
Exhibit A: Week 2
By Arts Staff / April 2, 2018
Where to go and what to do
Jennifer Lawrence stars in Francis Lawrence's latest spy thriller.
“Red Sparrow”: Red-Hot or Up in Flames?
By Andrea Li / March 29, 2018
"Red Sparrow" stars Jennifer Lawrence as a Soviet spy.
Ibsen's "An Enemy of the People," with costumes by Ana Kuzmanic and set by Todd Rosenthal.
“An Enemy of the People” Gets a Disillusioned Revival in the Trump Era
By Rosemarie Ho / March 29, 2018
While Ibsen's script can carry itself, director and adapter Robert Falls's interpretation is a few teeth short of a biting critique.
Courtesy of Peak Performances at Montclair State University.
CSO’s “Savior” Pays Tribute to Joan of Arc
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / March 29, 2018
A piece of "composed theater," Amy Beth Kirsten's "Savior" remembers the life and legacy of Saint Joan of Arc.
Adaora Ekwonu plays one of the characters in Ntozake Shange's "For Color Girls."
Iris’s “For Colored Girls” Paints a Poetic Narrative about Trauma and Strength
By Rosemarie Ho / March 14, 2018
Iris aims to promote "radically inclusive and socially conscious theater.”
-
“Thoroughbreds” is a Thrilling Comedy With a Killer Twist
By Zoe Bean / March 12, 2018
"The Heathers" meets "American Psycho": Corey Finley's debut film is a crackling dark comedy supported by a talented cast.
-
Exhibit A: Finals Week Edition
By Arts Staff / March 12, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
Chance the Rapper, Chicago’s Renaissance Man, Speaks at MCA
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / March 8, 2018
In a long-delayed talk, the Chicago rapper discussed fatherhood, activism, and his deep abiding love of the city.
Underground Collective Delivers Cathartic Winter Showcase
By Lexi Franciszkowicz, Contributor / March 6, 2018
The Underground Collective explored the question of "what keeps you up at night" with performances in a variety of mediums.
Christian Van Horn as Méphistophélès at the Lyric Opera.
Lyric Opera Puts Surreal Twist on “Faust”
By Jade Yan / March 6, 2018
"Faust" at the Lyric Opera is a surreal experience, but the characters give the production a gritty sense of reality.
-
Soloist In Mo Yang Explores Passion in USO Program
By Rena Slavin / March 6, 2018
On Saturday the University Symphony Orchestra presented Stavinsky's "Symphonies of Wind Instruments", Bernstein's "Serenade (After Plato's Symposium)", Paganini's "Caprice No. 1", and Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 6 in B minor "Pathetique".
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / March 5, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
Artists Discuss Role in Society in Logan Talk
By Jad Dahshan / March 5, 2018
Brooklyn-based painter Mike Cloud spoke with fellow artist Oscar Murillo at a reception for his exhibition, 'The Myth of Education", currently on view at the Logan Center Gallery.
-
Le Vorris & Vox Razzles and Dazzles at Cirque du Burlesque
By Jad Dahshan / March 1, 2018
Le Vorris and Vox reworked a traditional show with contemporary, even racy, elements.
Netflix's "End of the F***ing World."
“End of the F***ing World” is Pretty Damn Good
By Brooke White / March 1, 2018
Netflix's new series offers a fresh take on what a teen drama can be.
The painter Howardena Pindell.
MCA Threads Time and Canvas at Pindell Exhibit
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / March 1, 2018
The Musuem of Contemporary Art's new exhibit explores the sometimes underappreciated artist.

Artscast, E7: Improv, Policy, and Naked Love
By Max Miller / February 28, 2018
On this week’s episode: the life of an Off-Off student and the origins of Naked Love, a Harris School podcast on romance from a public policy perspective. Hosted by: Max Miller Featuring: Ellen...


Students Strut the Catwalk in Annual MODA Show
By Audrey Teo, Videographer / February 27, 2018
The annual winter fashion show featured the work of over two dozen student designers.
-
“Eurydice” Plays Viewers’ Heartstrings
By Jad Dahshan / February 27, 2018
UT performed "Eurydice", Sarah Ruhl's play based on the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice, in a retelling that captures the story's tragedy through unique metaphor and deep characters.
-
Car Seat Headrest Steers in New Direction With Twin Fantasy
By Gianluca Yong Gonzalez / February 27, 2018
Car Seat Headrest takes on profound themes of sadness and hope in their newest album, "Twin Fantasy," all while staying true to their unrefined sound.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / February 26, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
“You Got Older” Gets What It’s like to Be a Millenial
By Rosemarie Ho / February 26, 2018
Clare Barron's play, "You Got Older," produced by Steppenwolf Theatre, depicts the subtleties of millennials' complex problems.

FOTA’s “Sight x Sound” Is a Sight to Be Heard
By Zoe Bean / February 26, 2018
FOTA's annual "Sight x Sound" celebrates the abundant musical and visual arts talent on campus in a multimedia showcase.
Alia's work " ' " from her +|- collection.
Alia Ali Disturbs the Political Fabric of Borders With Art
By Jad Dahshan / February 22, 2018
The Yemeni-Bosnian-American artist takes apart the inseams of cultural boundaries in a talk hosted by the Arab Student Association.

Artscast, E5: Cheerleading and Cosplay
By Max Miller, Shawn Park, and Samuel Landon / February 21, 2018
This week: What is cosplay? Who cheers for UC, and why? Hosted by: Max Miller, Shawn Park, and Samuel Landon Featuring: Vera Beilinson, Kara Hairston, Dan Schwartz, Leah Wang Edited by: Parker...

-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / February 19, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
Portugal. The Man. The Band.
By Alexia Bacigalupi, Arts Editor / February 19, 2018
Portugal. The Man drew an eclectic crowd to the Aragon Ballroom for their latest crossover album "Woodstock."
"Brown Rainbow Eclipse Explosion"
Embodying and Rebodying With Young Joon Kwak
By Jad Dahshan / February 19, 2018
The L.A.-based multidisciplinary artist came to Logan Center to discuss her body of work.
"Avant Tout, Discipline" (2017) by Revital Cohen and Tuur van Belan.
“Unthought Environment” Examines the Elements
By Perri Wilson / February 19, 2018
The Renaissance Society's latest exhibit explores the unexamined surroundings in a multi-media series of installations

58th Annual Folk Festival Plucks Heartstrings in Mandel Hall
By May Huang and Kevin Trickey / February 15, 2018
The 58th Annual Folk Festival returned to Mandel Hall this year with two concerts and a full day of workshops (with video).
-
Song and Comedy Bring Something to “Much Ado About Nothing”
By Abby Kuchnir / February 15, 2018
The Dean's Men's winter show tries its hand at a classic, but mostly relies on the charisma of the script.
"Phantom Thread" stars Daniel Day-Lewis in what might be his final film role.
“Phantom Thread” Weaves Haunting Tapestry
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / February 15, 2018
The film "Phantom Thread" proves to be a thought-provoking exploration of a vulnerable yet disturbing romance.
-
Photo Essay: Commedia dell’Arte
By Zoe Kaiser / February 13, 2018
Commedia dell'Arte is a campus comedy group based on 16th-century Italian art form that combines improvisation, slapstick, and physical theater. They performed their winter show "Objectionable: A Courtroom Farce" last Thursday through Saturday.
-
Joffrey Explores the Boundaries of Ballet
By Alexia Bacigalupi, Arts Editor / February 13, 2018
The Joffrey's winter showcased works by George Balanchine, Nicholas Blanc, and others.
-
Iranian-American Author Stretches The Limits of Whiteness
By Jad Dahshan / February 13, 2018
“Caught in the chasm between formal ethno-racial invisibility and informal hypervisibility, Iranian Americans work, love, and live through a core social paradox.”
-
Amazon’s “Electric Dreams” Lacks a Spark
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / February 13, 2018
If Netflix's "Black Mirror" is a nightmare, "Electric Dreams" is one of those dreams about waking up: dull, derivative, and unsettling at best.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / February 12, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
“Intermissions” Takes a Break for Ambiguity
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / February 12, 2018
“[The title "Brothers and Sisters"] suggests the possibility that some entities are both brothers and sisters, which makes sense to me since in my life I have been both a sister and a brother.”
The cast of "God of Carnage."
“God of Carnage” Massacres Courtesy to Find Heart
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / February 8, 2018
"My son lost two teeth!" "And he'll have new ones! Better ones!"
Cashmere Cat, left, and MØ, right.
MØ “Gets it Right” with Cashmere Cat At The Vic
By Emma Hovanec / February 8, 2018
MØ and Cashmere Cat are teaming up to co-headline the MEØW tour throughout February.
Kimbra in 2017.
Not Just Somebody That You Used to Know: Kimbra Brings “Primal Heart” to Chicago
By Zoe Bean / February 8, 2018
While she might not quite keep company with the Lanas, Gagas, and Madonnas of the world, Kimbra packs a powerful punch with her combination of solid vocals and mellow, fantastical psychedelic pop instrumentals.
Still from Chase Joynt's shot film I'm Yours
Transitioning Publics: Gender/Genre-Bending with Chase Joynt
By Jad Dahshan / February 8, 2018
Multimedia artist Chase Joynt explores gender and trans representation in his work.
"Edward Hines National Forest" by Sara Black and Raewyn Martyn.
Hyde Park Art Center Has Global Reach
By Zoe Bean / February 5, 2018
A few exhibits at the local arts space.
-
Gary Oldman Shines in Churchill Biopic “Darkest Hour”
By Wlad Sarmiento, Associate Arts Editor / February 5, 2018
Gary Oldman's latest film showcases why he deserves to win an Oscar.
From left to right: Nathalie Joachim, flutes, Michael J. Maccaferri, clarinets, Yvonne Lam, violin & viola,
Nick Photinos, cello, Matthew Duvall, percussion, and Lisa Kaplan, piano
Composer György Ligeti Celebrated in Incandescent Performances
By Meera Santhanam / February 5, 2018
Hungarian percussion group, Amarinda, and Chicago-based ensemble, Eighth Blackbird, captivate the audience with their perfectly orchestrated dissonance.
-
Melnikov Performs Virtuosic Rendition of Shostakovich Fugues
By Rena Slavin / February 5, 2018
Pianist Alexander Melnikov takes on all 24 of Shostakovich’s "24 Preludes and Fugues" with a beautiful versatility of tone.
Meghan Babbe Steals the (Talk) Show at the Second City Training Center
By Deblina Mukherjee / February 5, 2018
"Ident Heist Starring Meghan Babbe" uses '60's style talk-show as a setting for cutting jokes and a stage for Chicago's up-and-coming comedians.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / February 5, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
UBallet Brings a Fairy Tale to Fourth Week
By Abby Kuchnir / February 1, 2018
UBallet welcomes dancers of all talents under their wings.
-
Exquisite Pressure: Making a Diamond of a Show in 30 Hours
By Connor Tree / February 1, 2018
Molière's "The Misanthrope" comes to life under the direction of Heidi Coleman, Shade Murray, and a talented ensemble of student actors.
-
Migos Rides a Rough Wave with Culture II
By Trent Carson / February 1, 2018
Migos's sophomore album is spottier than their first, but still channels the groups' exuberant energy.
-
Børns Delivers Live, Healthy Show at the Riviera Theatre
By Julia Paz, Contributor / February 1, 2018
Børns, Mikky Ekko, and Charlotte Cardin performed at the Riviera Theatre on January 27.

Artscast, E3: SHUBA and Iris
By Max Miller, Samuel Landon, and Shawn Park / January 31, 2018
Hosted by: Max Miller, Samuel Landon, and Shawn Park Featuring: Ege Yalcindag and SHUBA Edited by: Parker Mee and Grace Hauck

A Joker cosplayer sneers at the goings-on of the con. “Perhaps I’ll burn the place down,” he muses, “if I feel like it.”
Photo Essay: Uchi-Con 2018
By Zoe Kaiser and Maria Krunic / January 30, 2018
Last weekend, Uchi-Con, the annual student-run anime convention occurred, featuring cosplay characters and anime art.
-
MAB Hosts a Night of Knee-Slappers and Gluten Rallies
By Perri Wilson / January 30, 2018
The Major Activities Board's annual comedy showcase featured impressive sets from University and Chicago comedians alike.
-
Arts Incubator Exhibit Explores Shades of Political and Social Darkness
By Olivia Long / January 30, 2018
A new exhibit at the Washington Park Arts Incubator taps local talent to explore and comment on the topics of light and dark, systems of power, and polarizing politics.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / January 29, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
USO Celebrates Spanish Music From Across the Pyrenees
By Rena Slavin / January 29, 2018
Do French composers really write the best Spanish music? The University Symphony Orchestra attempts to answer.
Kesha performed her Grammy-nominated single "Praying" wearing all white as part of the evening's stand in solidarity with the #MeToo movement.
11 Grammy-Nominated Songs You Should Listen To
By Arts Staff / January 29, 2018
They may not have won a golden gramophone but they're still worth a few minutes of your time.

Artscast, E2: Mediocrity and My Little Pony
By Max Miller, Shawn Park / January 27, 2018
Hosted by: Max Miller and Shawn Park Featuring: Hayley Gruenspan and Jacob “Average” Johnson Edited by: Parker Mee   TRANSCRIPT


Artscast, E1: Shakespeare and ARGs
By Max Miller, Shawn Park, and Samuel Landon / January 26, 2018
The first episode of The Chicago Maroon's new arts podcast!   Hosted by: Max Miller. Featuring: Patrick Jagoda and Katie Bevil. Edited by: Parker Mee

-
Playing with Paint: Lewis Achenbach Tells a Sonic Story
By May Huang, Arts Editor / January 25, 2018
Painter Lewis Achenbach interprets jazz music through visual art.
-
A People’s History of Chicago: Celebrating the City’s History One Individual at a Time
By Anna Wu / January 25, 2018
Local poet Kevin Coval hosted an open mic in the Logan penthouse last Friday.
Hinds playing at the Cambridge Junction in 2016.
Hinds Plays Lincoln Hall for Tomorrow Never Knows
By Zoe Bean / January 25, 2018
"Their show felt like a private performance from your best friends, if your best friends were members of an internationally known rock band and also ridiculously, effortlessly cool."
Paul Heyer, Heaven.
MCA Explores a Higher Plane with Paul Heyer
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / January 25, 2018
The MCA's small-but-mighty exhibit explores pop culture, queer life, transformation, and the sublime.

Students enjoy free food and performances at IFF
By Audrey Teo, Videographer / January 24, 2018
Members of ASU serve food to students at IFF.
-
To Publish or Not to Publish: Is That Even a Question?
By Jad Dahshan / January 23, 2018
"The Post" celebrates not only freedom of press, but a single woman's personal success in a male-dominated industry.
Hrvoje Slovenc "Church Choir #3" 2014
MoCP Exhibit Presents Three Takes on Cultural Identity
By Zoe Bean / January 23, 2018
Three photographers take on the history of state-sponsored violence around the world, and examine their own biased perspectives in the process.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / January 22, 2018
What to do and where to go.
Cast of "She the People" from left to right: Maria Randazzo, Alex Bellisle, and Alexis J. Roston.
Who Run the World? Girls!
By Julia Paz, Contributor / January 22, 2018
Second City's show takes a humorous look at all levels of feminist issues.
UChicago Maya Presents: Reflections, an original student-choreographed show last weekend
Photo Essay: Dance Shows
By Patrick Yeung and Sophia Corning / January 21, 2018
Two dance ensembles held their winter shows last weekend: UChicago Maya performed fusion dance and Apsara showcased classical Indian dance.
-
Three Billboards: A Contentious Contender
By Michael Sherman / January 18, 2018
Three Billboards is attracting Oscar Buzz, but not without controversy.
-
Artwork and Homework at the Smart Museum
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / January 18, 2018
“Art acts as an immediate sensory stimulant—a prompt for the viewer to think about the ways sensations and ideas play off one another.”
-
Sliced Bread Turns 10 and Keeps Rising
By Neha Lingareddy / January 18, 2018
Sliced Bread magazine, founded in 2007, is UChicago's largest student literary publication.
-
The Revival’s “Hyde ya Kids” Hides Humor Behind Buzzy Issues
By Perri Wilson / January 15, 2018
The Revival's winter sketch revue covers everything from the local to the universal, with little humor.
-
Portrait of the Artist as an Activist
By Jad Dahshan / January 15, 2018
Artist/activist Syrus Marcus Ware and diversity advocate Precious Brady Davis discussed the meaning and importance of activism.
-
Don’t Mistake the Realism of “I, Tonya” for Levity
By Rachel Salisbury, Contributor / January 15, 2018
"I, Tonya," contrary to the New York Times review's interpretation, captures the complexities and reality of abuse.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / January 15, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
Dearborn and Dearly Worn, New Denim Store Opens on 53rd Street
By Jad Dahshan / January 11, 2018
Dearborn Denim prides itself on sourcing American-made materials and practicing sustainability.
"Space is the Place," set to a mesmerizing soundtrack, screens eighth week.
From Moving Pictures to Moving Vehicles: Doc Films Presents Winter Lineup
By Lily Ren / January 11, 2018
Doc curators present this quarter's winter lineup.
Occam’s Razor Cuts Its Teeth at the Revival
By David North / January 8, 2018
Occam's Razor performed improv comedy at the Revival last Friday night.
-
“Bright” Falters, But Netflix Still Shines
By Oren Oppenheim, News Editor / January 8, 2018
"Bright," starring Will Smith, is Netflix's latest attempt at disrupting the film industry.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / January 8, 2018
What to do and where to go.
-
The Money Behind the Magic: Dramatic Irony in Disney’s “The Last Jedi”
By Eric-Antonio Guzman / January 4, 2018
"The Last Jedi" bites the hand that feeds it—Disney as well as the fans.
-
“The Last Jedi” Swings at the Past, But Strikes Out
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / January 4, 2018
Although a beautifully produced film, "The Last Jedi" tries to channel "The Empire Strikes Back" and misses the mark.
-
From U of C to “Sea Oak;” Alumna Lands Role in Amazon Pilot
By Julia Paz, Contributor / January 4, 2018
Rae Gray (A.B. ’14) acts alongside Glenn Close in Amazon's "Sea Oak," based on George Saunder's short story.
-
Remembering Kim Jong-hyun, Shining Star of K-pop
By Rosemarie Ho / December 22, 2017
Jonghyun committed suicide on Monday evening. He was 27.
Oliver (Armie Hammer) and Elio (Timothée Chalamet) are the unlikely lovers at the center of Luca Guadagnino's latest drama.
“Call Me By Your Name” Is A Satisfying, Sumptuous Reverie
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / December 18, 2017
Luca Guadagnino's sensuous tale of first love and loss basks in its own beauty but leaves a lasting impression.
-
Obituary: Willie Pickens
By May Huang, Arts Editor / December 14, 2017
Pickens passed away on December 12 at the age of 86.
As patches of color slowly dissipate, a light gray mushroom cloud rises from the roof of Regenstein Library.
Reactions Retrospective
By Jad Dahshan / December 11, 2017
A comprehensive look back on the University's 75th anniversary commemoration weekend.
-
UT Shoots for the Stars and Lands on Neverland
By Jad Dahshan / December 10, 2017
University Theatre closed out its fall season with Peter and the Starcatcher.
-
University Symphony Reckons with Monuments Past
By Mimansa Dogra / December 8, 2017
The University Symphony Orchestra performed repertoire composed after 9/11, the Hiroshima bombings, and the Russian Revolution.
-
The Underground Collective Delivers Words to Keep in Mind
By Perri Wilson / December 6, 2017
The group's showcase, titled "Keepsake," took place last Friday.
-
The Disaster Artist Is an Idealist Fantasy for Facing Failure
By Eric-Antonio Guzman / December 6, 2017
"The Disaster Artist" opens in theatres nationwide on Friday, December 8.
The artwork starts with streaks of color shooting up into the sky.
Photo Essay: Multi-colored Mushroom Cloud Rises Adjacent to the Site of the Chicago Pile-1 Experiment
By Adam Thorp and Feng Ye / December 3, 2017
As a part of the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the first nuclear reaction, a pyrotechnic colorful mushroom cloud designed by artist Cai Guo-Qiang ascends from the roof of the Joseph Regenstein Library.
-
Alejandro Cesarco Engages in Enigma at Renaissance Society
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / December 2, 2017
Alejandro Cesarco's "Song" opened on November 18.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / November 30, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Classical Entertainment Society Takes Successful Stab at Julius Caesar
By Cynthia Huang / November 28, 2017
The Classical Entertainment Society (CES) put a modern take on the Shakespearean classic.
-
Galantis Delivers EDM Magic at Aragon Ballroom
By Zoe Bean / November 28, 2017
The Swedish electronic danced music duo stopped in Chicago on November 17.
Lindy's Chili and Gertie's Ice Cream is a southwest side stalwart.
Bite: Lindy’s Chili & Gertie’s Ice Cream
By Katie McPolin / November 28, 2017
A preview of Bite's Fall issue.
Meats and veggies, roasted and mashed.
Cooking 101: A Winter Survival Guide in Three Steps
By Alex Ye / November 27, 2017
Fourth-year Alex Ye walks us through customizable meat-and-veggies staples.
A10 executive chef James Martin gets hands-on in the kitchen.
Behind the Counter with Hyde Park Restaurateurs
By Cindy Yao / November 27, 2017
We talked to the masterminds behind five Hyde Park mainstays.
-
Gone Shopping: Hyde Park Grocers
By Hannah Edgar and May Huang / November 27, 2017
The Maroon assesses the strengths and weaknesses of Hyde Park's grocery stores.
-
Teju Cole Invites Audience to Look for What Can’t Be Seen
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / November 21, 2017
It became clearer throughout the evening that it is precisely this enticing interplay between beauty, facts, and the unknown which Cole seeks in his various endeavors.
Kate Connors plays Diana Goodman in Next to Normal
UT’s “Next to Normal” Stuns With Powerful Performance
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / November 21, 2017
-
Saoirse Ronan plays protagonist in Lady Bird
Indie Drama “Lady Bird” Soars
By Michael Sherman / November 21, 2017
“I want you to be the very best version of yourself that you can be.” “What if this is the best version?”
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / November 21, 2017
What to do and where to go.
ECM Album: A Fresh Take on Baroque Classics
By Rena Slavin / November 21, 2017
-
-
Synthesis: When Rock Bands Become Symphony Orchestras
By Jad Dahshan / November 21, 2017
Where the incessant sense of urgency permeating the original tracks left the listener feeling pumped yet drained at the end, the remade versions instead leave the listener in awe.
-
Iris a Spectrum of Diversity on Stage
By Ege Yalcindag / November 16, 2017
The theater group strives to empower the voice of people of color on campus.
Dancers from the classical Indian dance group Apsara pose in McCormick Lounge.
Song, Dance, and Inclusivity Fill Hutch in Annual Diwali Festival
By Perri Wilson / November 16, 2017
Attendees of the Hindu holiday festival enjoyed food from Udupi Palace and henna designs while watching a series of student performances.
Aesthetic Confusion: Anime, Orchestras, and Poetry
By Jad Dahshan / November 16, 2017
UChicago's Chamber Music Organization hosted graduate student composer Alison Yun-Fei Jiang for an evening of conversation and music.
-
Mitski Mesmerizes Mandel at MAB Fall Show
By Jad Dahshan / November 14, 2017
Like a lo-fi snake charmer, Mitski coaxed out viewers’ deepest, most self-pitying selves with her cathartically raw lyrics, inviting them to revel with her in their collective misery and optimism
“La Poétesse(The Poetess)” by Joan Miró
Art Finds Students to Live With Through Smart Museum’s Art Match
By May Huang, Arts Editor / November 14, 2017
75 students took art home through the Smart Museum's Art to Live With program.
Mitski Mesmerizes Mandel at MAB Fall Show
By Jad Dahshan / November 14, 2017
Like a lo-fi snake charmer, Mitski coaxed out viewers’ deepest, most self-pitying selves with her cathartically raw lyrics, inviting them to revel with her in their collective misery and optimism
-
Fourth-year Val Bodurtha Gives History a Remake in Debut Novel
By Rosemarie Ho / November 14, 2017
"The History Makers," an alternative history YA novel, hopes to "make 13-year-olds laugh a little and hopefully get them interested in the Aztecs and history.”
-
Malu Halasa’s “Mother of all Pigs” is a Novel for All Readers
By Jad Dahshan / November 14, 2017
As Halasa emphatically expounded during the event, her book aims to dispel the dust cloud of disillusionment and terrorism espoused by major media outlets about the Middle East.
-
DuSable Screening Commemorates Audre Lorde
By Meghan Ward / November 14, 2017
"The Edge of Each Other’s Battles: The Vision of Audre Lorde," produced in 2002, centers on the 1990 "I Am Your Sister" conference.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / November 14, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Tegan and Sara Consecrate “The Con” at Rockefeller Chapel
By Brooke Nagler / November 9, 2017
Indie pop duo Tegan and Sara performed at Rockefeller Chapel on Saturday, November 4.
-
Matisse Prints Jazz Up Logan Center
By Perri Wilson / November 9, 2017
20 prints from Henri Matisse's "Jazz" have joined the Logan Center's permanent collection.
Sir András Schiff, pictured here in Romania, performed at the CSO College Night last Thursday.
Sir András Schiff is a Multitasking Maestro at the CSO
By Rena Slavin / November 9, 2017
Sir András Schiff returns to the CSO after over two decades.
-
Obamas Return to Chicago for Star-Studded Concert
By May Huang and Alexia Bacigalupi / November 7, 2017
“The question isn’t why would we be here in Chicago on the South Side, but why not?” -Michelle Obama
-
Dream Freaks Make Earthly Appearance in Second City Show
By Deblina Mukherjee / November 7, 2017
The political becomes the personal and the personal is compelling in Second City's latest show.
-
Belle of Amherst at Court Theatre Highlights the Duality of Dickinson
By Nick Ogilvie / November 7, 2017
There is nowhere to hide for the character or the audience, and the consequential magnification of such emotion is oppressively profound.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / November 6, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Snakehips Grips Concord Music Hall with Venomous Beats
By Max Miller / November 6, 2017
-
Poetry in the Wake of Nuclear Disaster
By Jad Dahshan / November 6, 2017
The latest "Arts and the Nuclear Age" event brought together Japanese poet Takako Arai and translator Jeffrey Angles for poetry readings after nuclear fallout.
Reveal Live Sets a New High-Water Mark for Live Podcast Events
By Parker Mee / November 6, 2017
"Reveal" podcast host Al Letson performed a one-man show of his life-changing experience at the Berkeley "Rally Against Hate" earlier this year.
Maggie Gyllenhaal is a producer of "The Deuce" and stars as Candy, an entrepreneurial prostitute in Times Square in the 1970s.
Raw, Riotous, and Raunchy, HBO’s “The Deuce” Is an Ace
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / November 2, 2017
David Simon's latest show exposes the seedy underbelly of Time Square in the wake of a pornographic revolution.
Dia de los Muertos Festivities Celebrate Family and Remembrance
By Abby Kuchnir / November 2, 2017
The National Museum of Mexican Art organized performances, face-painting, and traditional altar displays as part of a day-long celebration of Día de los Muertos.
Poke is Hawaiian raw fish salad, often served with tuna or octopus.
Aloha Poké Co. Placates as Expected
By Rosemarie Ho / November 2, 2017
The new Hyde Park location of the Chicago chain offers a myriad of traditional and non-traditional options for customizable poké bowls.
-
Luis Tapia Finds Solace in Sculpture with Pilsen Exhibit
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / November 2, 2017
An exhibit of sculptor Luis Tapia's work at the National Museum of Mexican Art explores different forms of community.
-
“Improvised Black Mirror” Is Cracked, not Clearer
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / October 30, 2017
The actors meant to shame the racist in the crowd, but inadvertently advocated for exactly that kind of racism.
-
Neubauer Collegium Deconstructs U.S. Imperialism through Architecture
By Rosemarie Ho / October 30, 2017
Terrence Gower began "Havana Case Study" almost a decade ago.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 30, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Gorgon City Electrifies Concord Music Hall
By Mimansa Dogra / October 30, 2017
London-based Gorgon City played new and familiar tracks at Concord Music Hall last Friday.
-
Humanities Day Celebrates Curiosity and Creativity Across Disciplines
By Jad Dahshan and Perri Wilson / October 26, 2017
From “Aerial Aesthetics: Artworks and Their Environments Around 1900” to book readings from campus novelists, this annual celebration of the humanities encouraged a deep sense of curiosity.
A panel at Cal Tech commemorates the Golden Record with speakers such as the project scientist Ed Stone (left) and "Interstellar" producer Lynda Obst (center right).
Alumni Filmmakers Document Music Across Time and Space
By Eric-Antonio Guzman / October 26, 2017
Sister filmmakers Biliana (A.M. ‘11) and Marina Grozdanova (A.B.’ 13) partnered on a documentary series about the Voyager spacecraft's Golden Record.
Lysistrata Jones (Mary-Margaret Roberts) addresses a group of basketball players.
“Lysistrata Jones” Slam Dunks the Patriarchy Through Song
By Zoe Bean / October 26, 2017
Refuge Theatre Project delivers a "delightful, provocative, and masterfully performed" version of the collegiate, musical retelling of Aristophanes’s comedy "Lysistrata."
The original and reissued versions of "The Queen is Dead" both feature actor Alain Delon on the cover, but with slight alterations.
The Smiths Revive “The Queen Is Dead” for 30th Anniversary
By Julia Paz, Contributor / October 26, 2017
The reissue contains unreleased demos, live recordings, remastered songs, and the timeless emotional power of the original.
Krista Tippett (left) interviews Ta-Nehisi Coates (right) for her podcast "On Being."
Catching Up With Ta-Nehisi Coates
By May Huang and Brooke Nagler / October 23, 2017
“Our story is a tragedy. I know it sounds odd, but that belief does not depress me. It focuses me.”
-
An Education on Masseduction
By Jad Dahshan / October 23, 2017
"It’s MASS-SEDUCTION, not MASS-EDUCATION, which is a noble and worthy cause for sure, but it’s not the title of my record,” announced St. Vincent in a Facebook livestream.
-
“On the Road” Makes a Pit Stop at the American Writers Museum
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / October 23, 2017
-
-
Blues and Jazz Bring Suits With Pizazz
By Yao Xen Tan and David North / October 23, 2017
“I think if it wasn’t for the blues, there wouldn't be no jazz.” –T-Bone Walker
-
MCA Celebrates 50th Anniversary with Renewed Commitment to Chicago
By Abby Kuchnir / October 23, 2017
-
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 23, 2017
-
-
Mitski to Headline MAB Fall Show
By Brooke Nagler / October 21, 2017
MAB announces performers for Fall Show.
-
Open House Chicago Opens Doors to City
By Kuba Sokolowski / October 19, 2017
Last weekend, over 200 buildings opened their doors to the public for Open House Chicago.
-
Jennifer Packer Exhibits Body of Work at Renaissance Society
By Cynthia Huang / October 19, 2017
Jennifer Packer explores the politics of cultural narratives through painting black bodies.
-
BBQ Supply Co. Pulls Through with Pork
By Parker Mee / October 19, 2017
BBQ Supply Co. replaced Yusho Hyde Park at 1301 East 53rd St.
-
Art Institute’s Tarsila do Amaral Exhibit Traces the Journey of a “Restless Soul”
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / October 16, 2017
The Art Institute's new exhibit sheds light on an artist who is too frequently overlooked in the Western modern art narrative.
-
“Nuclear Thresholds” Installation Meditates on Duality
By Perri Wilson / October 16, 2017
The new installation commemorates the 75th anniversary of Chicago Pile-1, the first self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction.
UIC Mobs A$AP Mob in Rowdy Concert
By Max Miller / October 16, 2017
The large rap ensemble stirred up the crowd at UIC last Wednesday.
-
Chicago Podcast Festival Celebrates Local Talent
By Parker Mee / October 16, 2017
The second annual festival offered an impressive lineup of local talent from "Siblings Peculiar" to "The Potterotica Podcast"
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 16, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Improv Comedy Plans for Revolution at The Revival
By Claire Potter / October 12, 2017
"The Revolution Will Not Be Improvised!" premiered at The Revival last Saturday.
-
“Blade Runner” Sequel Poses Cutting Questions
By Michael Sherman / October 12, 2017
35 years after its predecessor, "Blade Runner 2049" makes its big screen debut.
Augustus Rose is an author, screenwriter, and lecturer in Creative Writing.
Rose and the Readymades: Campus Author Talks the Art of the Novel
By Julia Paz, Contributor / October 9, 2017
Creative Writing lecturer Augustus Rose talked his recent debut novel, "The Readymade Thief" last Thursday at 57th Street Books.
-
Telephones Lines and Veins Intertwine at “Savageness”
By Jad Dahshan / October 9, 2017
With bold performance art, 6018North delivered an immersive experience of urban architecture both past and present.
Misleading Marketing: The “Mother!” of Failed “Horror” Films
By Eric-Antonio Guzman / October 9, 2017
"'Mother!' is not a horror film at all....It is tense, uncomfortable, and thought-provoking, but never scary."
The Smart Museum has five new galleries and a sculpture garden this fall.
Fall Exhibits Examine Community Engagement at the Smart
By Zoe Bean and Meghan Ward / October 9, 2017
The museum's new exhibits feature historical and political themes and investigate changing societal values.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 9, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Theater[3024] is Doing Fine, Doing Fine
By Parker Mee / October 5, 2017
Six original plays are devised overnight in University Theater's quarterly Theater[24].
Readers and writers alike gathered at the 6th annual Chicago Book Expo last Sunday.
Book Expo Marks Annual Gathering of Literary Community
By Leone Fang and Claire Potter / October 5, 2017
Readers and writers alike gathered at the sixth annual Chicago Book Expo last Sunday.
The Oxford-based band consists of Edmund Irwin-Singer on the bass, Joe Seaward on the drums, Dave Bayley as the lead vocalist and guitarist, and Drew MacFarlane on the guitar.
Glass Animals Brings the Pineapples and Punch to Aragon Ballroom
By Zoe Bean / October 2, 2017
The indie rock band formed an electrifying set in iconic Chicago concert venue.
The Bechdel Family poses for a portrait.
Come to the “Fun Home”: Victory Gardens Delivers the Family Tragicomic
By Emily Ehret, Associate Arts Editor / October 2, 2017
A new production of the critically acclaimed Broadway musical had a smashing premiere in Lincoln Park.
Nella Brings Neapolitan Charm to Hyde Park
By Aakaash Rao, Contributor / October 2, 2017
The new Italian restaurant has opened in Campus North Residential Commons.
The iconic mushroom-shaped cloud from the Operation Crossroads nuclear explosion tests at Bikini Atoll on July 25, 1946.
“Arts and the Nuclear Age” Interrogates Atomic Past
By Jonathan Mandel, Contributor / October 2, 2017
New UChicago Arts' speaker series offers a timely reflection on art in the Nuclear Age.
From left to right: Stephen Allen as Nomax, Lorenzo Rush Jr. as Big Moe, A.D. Weaver as Little Moe, James Earl Jones II as Eat Moe, Eric Andrews Lewis as No Moe, and Kelvin Roston Jr. as Four-Eyed Moe.
Court Theatre Opens Season with Moe Songs and Moe Heart
By May Huang, Arts Editor / October 2, 2017
Court Theatre's "Five Guys Named Moe" is a rousing musical packed with Louis Jordan's greatest hits.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / October 2, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Karl Ove Knausgaard on Novels and Knowing
By Rosemarie Ho / September 28, 2017
Norwegian author Karl Ove Knausgaard visited campus this summer to discuss his latest novel, "Autumn."
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / September 28, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / September 28, 2017
What to do and where to go.
LCD Soundsystem Dreams, But Not Big Enough
By David North / September 28, 2017
LCD Soundsystem's released their latest album, "American Dream," on September 1.
Tips from Fourth-Years
By Michael Lynch / September 15, 2017
"Go to every event with free food."
 
Campus Dining
By May Huang, Arts Editor / September 15, 2017
Dining Halls provide a tasty opportunity to bond with your housemates.
-
Recreational Activities
By Siddharth Kapoor / September 15, 2017
There are plenty of opportunities on campus for students to engage in recreational activities.
Baristas prepare coffee at the grand opening of Sanctuary Cafe.
Campus Cafes
By Urvi Kumbhat / September 15, 2017
Members of the UChicago community are spoiled for choice when it comes to campus cafes.
Fourth-year Cecilia Boyers performs on silks for Le Vorris & Vox's annual winter showcase.
Arts On Campus
By Maroon Staff / September 15, 2017
Your guide to the vibrant arts scene on campus.
Chicago To-Do List
By Deepti Sailappan, Managing Editor (’19-’20) / September 15, 2017
15 things you have to do during your time in Chicago.
Takashi Murakami's solo exhibition, "The Octopus Eats Its Own Leg," runs at the MCA until September 24.
Arts Off Campus
By Maroon Staff / September 15, 2017
Your guide to the arts off campus.
-
The MCA Explores Myriad Depths with Takashi Murakami’s “The Octopus Eats Its Own Leg”
By Mimansa Dogra / August 27, 2017
The exhibition will be on display until September 24.
Ian Bostridge's Wanderer probed new depths in "The Dark Mirror: Zender's Winterreise."
Schubert Wanders On: Re-Composing “Winterreise”
By Bryan McGuiggin, Contributor / August 15, 2017
In a new staging by Netia Jones, Hans Zender's "composed interpretation" of Schubert's "Winterreise" burnishes its source material.
-
14 Free Movies in Chicago This August
By Arts Staff / August 2, 2017
More free movies screened around the city this month.
-
MFA Summer Projects Find Home at Logan Center
By Mimansa Dogra / July 31, 2017
Adrienne Meyers, Shanna Zentner, and Jan Brugger give the Logan Center Gallery a makeover for the summer.
LCD Soundsystem performed at Pitchfork Music Festival on Friday, July 14, 2017.
Pitchfork Music Festival: An Impression
By David North / July 27, 2017
Pitchfork Music Festival 2017 took place from July 14 to 17, featuring acts such as Danny Brown and LCD Soundsystem.
-
Linkin Park’s Chester Bennington Leaves Behind Reasons to be Missed
By Kardelen Sertsoz / July 26, 2017
In Memoriam: Chester Bennington (1976–2017)
-
Mitski Soars at Pitchfork Music Fest
By Rosemarie Ho / July 24, 2017
Japanese-American musician Mitski transcends labels with her intimate, yet soaring voice.
-
Welcome Blanket and Smart Museum Knit Fabric of Community
By May Huang, Arts Editor / July 20, 2017
Blankets and letters will be distributed to new immigrants and refugees in December.
-
Previewing Pitchfork
By David North / July 13, 2017
Summer means music festival time. Read on about who to check out and who to pass on at Pitchfork this year.
-
“4:44” kills Jay-Z, revives Shawn Carter
By Andrew Harrington / July 12, 2017
Forget what you expected to hear from Jay-Z; "4:44" begins the era of Shawn Carter.
-
Exhibit A: Summer Edition
By Arts Staff / July 8, 2017
What to do and where to go on campus this summer!
Robert W. Reneker Distinguished Service Professor of Music Philip Gossett, circa 1975.
University Remembers Philip Gossett, 1941–2017, Professor Emeritus and Renowned Opera Scholar
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / July 5, 2017
Gossett, who passed away on June 13, inspired scholars and performers alike.
-
15 Free Movies Around Chicago This July
By Arts Staff / July 3, 2017
Summer nights are made for picnics, walks in the park, and free open-air movies.
-
JC Rivera on Being a Champ and Rolling with the Punches
By May Huang, Arts Editor / June 29, 2017
Puerto Rican artist JC Rivera, the man behind the street mural character Bear Champ, discussed perseverance in pursuing art.
“She Kills Monsters” Duels with Humor and Grief
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / June 6, 2017
The UT show was a delightful romp only weighed down by its attempt at more serious emotion.
German violinist Christian Tetzlaff's long-standing advocacy for Szymanowski's Violin Concerto No. 1 was apparent in his performance of the piece with the CSO.
CSO and Soloist Serve Up Central European Flair
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / June 4, 2017
The CSO and violinist Christian Tetzlaff delight with a sumptuous program.
-
“Twin Peaks” Returns From the Black Lodge
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / May 29, 2017
The cult classic TV show is back and as weird as ever.
Lear (first-year Thomas Noriega, center) confronts his daughters Regan (third-year Peyton Walker, left) and Goneril (fourth-year Michaela Voit, right).
LEAR: A Perfect Storm of Tragedy and Deceit
By Emily Ehret, Associate Arts Editor / May 29, 2017
The latest adaptation of "King Lear" delivered bold thrills on the backdrop of a dystopian future.
-
MuralxMaroon: Colors of Hope in Puerto Rico
By Tatiana Khemet / May 29, 2017
A massive mural project in Puerto Rico seeks to bring joy and optimism to a neglected neighborhood.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / May 29, 2017
What to do and where to go.
“Elves Made Me Gay,” and Other Queer Stories
By Brooke Nagler / May 26, 2017
LGBTQ+ variety show "Space" brought comedy, commentary, and comets to The Revival last Friday.
-
Logan Celebrates Five Years of Campus Arts
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / May 25, 2017
This year, the Logan Center celebrates its upcoming fifth anniversary as a creative and collaborative arts space on that strives to promote liberal arts to the campus and wider Chicago community.
Sironski-White's still-unfinished, untitled series began last summer.
The Triad: Capturing the People of Hyde Park
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / May 25, 2017
Luke Sironski-White's photographs explore the relationship between University of Chicago students, the University administration, and community members unaffiliated with the University.
-
Bummer Breeze: It’s (Not) Raining, We’re Snoring
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / May 22, 2017
"Summer Breeze, timid victim of a rainstorm that wasn’t, involved no breezes. Not that it really needed any. When no one is dancing, it doesn’t get very hot."
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / May 22, 2017
What to do and where to go.
(Left to right) Fourth-year Jackson Bierfeldt,  second-year Billie Malès, T. Kimball Brooker, and second-year Bryan McGuiggin.
By the Book: Brooker Prizewinners Discuss Their Collections
By Chloé Bardin and Ivan Ost / May 22, 2017
-
-
Court’s “Harvey” Mixes Giant Rabbits and Psychiatrists
By Emily Ehret, Associate Arts Editor / May 22, 2017
The Court Theatre's current production is a crowd-pleasing comedy, but there's a giant white rabbit in the room, and it's an outdated stance on mental health.
The Smart sets up for "The Project(s)," a documentary theater performance presented by the National Public Housing Museum and American Theater Company.
Smart Museum Rings in a Year of Belonging
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / May 22, 2017
“We select artists who are considering similar sets of questions that we’re thinking about as an institution to develop programming that addresses our joint concerns," said Michael Christiano.
Sliced Bread with Cream Cheese and a Side of Emotion
By Chloé Bardin, Contributor / May 18, 2017
"Sliced Bread" magazine's celebrated its spring issue with a launch party featuring readings and performances and from student artists.
-
“Rent” Seizes the Day Throughout History
By Brooke Nagler / May 18, 2017
"Rent" is in Chicago for its 20th anniversary tour, captivating audiences with its timeless story and music.

Portrait: of the Chief as a Young Rapper
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / May 16, 2017
Third-year Ben Glover takes us back to lunch room freestyle and the three pillars of rap.
-
CPS Students and CSO Bring Music and Mettle to Center Stage
May 15, 2017
Yo-Yo Ma joined students of several Chicago Public Schools and their CSO mentors in a program tackling the theme courage in its many forms.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / May 15, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Manual of Style: Power, Identity, and (pièce de) Résistance
May 15, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Guests visit the Free Black Women’s Pop-up Library	at Stony Island Arts Bank.
Free Black Women’s Pop-up Library Leaves Lasting Impression
By Chloé Bardin, Contributor / May 11, 2017
Last Saturday, the Stony Island Arts Bank hosted the Free Black Women’s Pop-up Library to celebrate and preserve African-American women's culture.
-
Laura Marling Strums Heartstrings at the Metro
By May Huang, Arts Editor / May 11, 2017
British singer-songwriter Laura Marling mesmerized Chicago fans at the Metro last Sunday.
Illumination, 2009 by Ai Weiwei
Photography as Rebellion: Human Rights Activist’s Controversial Photos at #AiWeiwei
By Max Miller / May 11, 2017
Ai Weiwei documents escapades of resistance against the growth of autocracy and surveillance.
Civitas Ensemble and Gipsy Way Ensemble Break Stigma Through Music
By Rebecca Julie, Deputy Arts Editor / May 11, 2017
Last Sunday, the Civitas Ensemble collaborated with the Gipsy Way Ensemble to destigmatize Romani culture.
-
Manual of Style: The Right Fit
May 10, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"

Portrait: Student Dancers En Pointe
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / May 8, 2017
The Maroon sat down with a trio of student dancers: Khephren Chambers, Christine Chin, and Addison Jeske.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / May 8, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Imani Winds Breathes Vitality to the Legacy of Gwendolyn Brooks
By Chloé Bardin, Contributor / May 8, 2017
The Grammy-nominated quintet pays homage to Gwendolyn Brooks in an eclectic concert celebrating African American culture and history.
-
Spring is Here and So Is the Seventh Annual JSA Cultural Show
By Rafael Palomino / May 8, 2017
The Japanese Student Association's seventh annual spring festival, "Matsuri," brought together a variety of performers from singers to martial artists in a celebration of Japanese culture last Friday.
“Tamara”, Biopic of Trans Politician, Tackles Representation in all its Forms
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / May 8, 2017
Although uneven in tone, "Tamara" casts an important spotlight on the experience of being trans in Latin America.
From left to right: pianist Ben Waltzer, saxophonist Geof Bradfield, bassist Clark Sommers, and drummer Dana Hall performed at Logan Center last Sunday afternoon.
Musicians Mine for Jazz Gems and Strike New Chords
By May Huang, Arts Editor / May 4, 2017
Musicians adapted the work of historic jazz figures for contemporary audiences and performed their pieces last Sunday.
-
Beyond Aesthetic: Art that Wills Change
By Brooke Nagler / May 4, 2017
Last weekend, contemporary artists explored what it means to pursue artistic practices of human rights at a multi-day summit held in the Logan Center.
“Ayiti Mon Amour” Brings Magic and Mystery to Latino Film Festival
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / May 4, 2017
Haitian drama "Ayiti Mon Amour" brings magic and mystery to the 33rd Chicago Latino Film Festival.
Scenes from Mexican History Come Together in “La Habitación”
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / May 4, 2017
"La Habitación" presents jarring and moving scenes from Mexican history at Chicago’s 33rd Latino Film Festival.
-
Abstract Takes Form in RBIM’s “Collective Conscious”
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / May 4, 2017
RBIM's "Collective Conscious" featured student choreography and showcased diverse dance styles last week.
-
Joffrey Ballet Proves Itself a “Global Visionary” in New Program
May 1, 2017
Nary a tutu in sight: New Joffrey performance celebrates modern choreography through an art form still heavily associated with the 18th and 19th centuries.
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / May 1, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
The Beauty of Familiarity: “Una Noche de Amor” Marries Classic Tropes and Whimsy
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / May 1, 2017
Unassuming and familiar, "Una Noche de Amor" is buoyed with tenderness and playfulness.
First-years Isabella Zanobini (left) and Greer Baxter (right) break into song.
No Soggy Bottoms at Off-Off
May 1, 2017
The 31st generation of Off-Off Campus served up a baking-themed improv musical in "La Land Land" last Saturday at The Revival.

Interrogating Interracial Love: A Handmade Book of Poems
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / May 1, 2017
Second-year Jennifer Wang and fourth-year MeeSoh Bossard discuss their current bookmaking project: an exploration of poetry, painting, and what it means to be a mixed-race woman in love with a white man.

“Start:” Kick-starts Student Art in Hyde Park
By Alexia Bacigalupi, Arts Editor / April 27, 2017
For the first—but hopefully not the last—time, "Start:" showcased student art for sale at a pop-up show in Harper Court.
University of Chicago students model clothing by local stylist (instagram: akesestylelines) for the ACSA Aesthetics Cultural Show. Daniel Labrousse.
In “ACSA Aesthetics,” a Cultural Showcase Sees Unity in Diversity
By Rafael Palomino / April 27, 2017
ACSA celebrated diversity, featuring local and student artists, at its annual fashion and art show.
Hyperbole Feels Like an Understatement with of Montreal
By Christopher Good / April 27, 2017
of Montreal brought onstage antics, drag, synths, and more to Thalia Hall last Saturday.
-
Skepta-cal No More: UK Rapper Brings Grime to Chicago
By Max Miller / April 27, 2017
British rapper "Skepta" bridged London and Chicago through his concert at Concord Music Hall this Monday.
-
Revisiting the Classics with Ballet at the Smart
By Estelle Higgins, Contributor / April 27, 2017
The classical and contemporary came together for an innovative performance at the Smart Museum.

Portrait: Re-Painting Familiar Tales
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / April 25, 2017
The Maroon sat down with visual artists Breanne Johnson and Alice Xiao.
-
Feachair: The Best Seats on Campus
By Isaac Tannenbaum, Contributor / April 24, 2017
UChicago students have a lot of work. A lot of work means a lot of sitting. Here's a glimpse at some of the chairs that lend their assets to UChicagoans.
(Left to right) Emily Lovett, Maggie Bader, Saoirse Ryan, Sophie Hoyt, Corinne DiFrancesco, and Maya Jain sing the show's final number.
Childhood, Revisited: “A Wrinkle in Time” Adaptation Delights
By Emily Ehret, Associate Arts Editor / April 24, 2017
Fourth-year Corson Barnard’s Theater and Performance Studies (TAPS) B.A. performance of "A Wrinkle in Time," was a charming musical rendition of the eponymous, beloved children's novel.
-
Exhibit [A]rts
By Arts Staff / April 24, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Exhibit [A]rts
By Arts Staff / April 24, 2017
What to do and where to go.
A finalist in a poster submission contest for the 33rd Chicago Latino Film Festival.
Tragedy and Tradition at Latino Film Festival Opening
By Max Miller and Ivan Ost / April 24, 2017
The first showings of the 33rd Latino Film Festival examine hope, family and tragedy.
-
Manual of Style: Ba(ke)sics
April 20, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
-
Manual of Style: Ba(ke)sics
April 20, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
-
Dragons, Roses, and Books on 57th Street: San Jordi in Hyde Park
By Chloé Bardin, Contributor / April 20, 2017
Amaia Gabantxo and Jason Grunebaum discussed the power and politics of translation as part of Hyde Park's Saint Jordi's Day celebration.
-
Dragons, Roses, and Books on 57th Street: San Jordi in Hyde Park
By Chloé Bardin, Contributor / April 20, 2017
Amaia Gabantxo and Jason Grunebaum discussed the power and politics of translation as part of Hyde Park's Saint Jordi's Day celebration.
Two New Works, Neither Weak: Making a Killing and Shades
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / April 17, 2017
University Theater's New Work Week took viewers through the ups and downs of the creative process.
Two New Works, Neither Weak: Making a Killing and Shades
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / April 17, 2017
University Theater's New Work Week took viewers through the ups and downs of the creative process.

Voices in Your Head Sings Outside the Cube
By May Huang and Alexia Bacigalupi / April 17, 2017
The Maroon sat down with the voices stuck in everyone's head.

Voices in Your Head Sings Outside the Cube
By May Huang and Alexia Bacigalupi / April 17, 2017
The Maroon sat down with the voices stuck in everyone's head.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 17, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 17, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Shannon Noll and Carly Ballerini co-hosted the performance which included comedy, drag performances and storytelling.
“Jewelry, Bitch, I’m Gay”: LMAO with LGBTQIA
By Brooke Nagler / April 17, 2017
On Friday, The Revival was filled with queer artists for SPACE: LMAO with LGBTQIA, an evening of performances from comedy to drag.
Shannon Noll and Carly Ballerini co-hosted the performance which included comedy, drag performances and storytelling.
“Jewelry, Bitch, I’m Gay”: LMAO with LGBTQIA
By Brooke Nagler / April 17, 2017
On Friday, The Revival was filled with queer artists for SPACE: LMAO with LGBTQIA, an evening of performances from comedy to drag.
UChicago Maya was one of many dance groups PhiNix Dance Crew invited to its spring Revival showcase.
From the Ashes: PhiNix Ignites with Revival Showcase
By Lela Jenkins, Contributor / April 17, 2017
In its spring showcase, PhiNix Dance Crew married dancers from across campus and a variety of musical genres.
UChicago Maya was one of many dance groups PhiNix Dance Crew invited to its spring Revival showcase.
From the Ashes: PhiNix Ignites with Revival Showcase
By Lela Jenkins, Contributor / April 17, 2017
In its spring showcase, PhiNix Dance Crew married dancers from across campus and a variety of musical genres.
-
Manual of Style: Down Time
April 13, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
-
Manual of Style: Down Time
April 13, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
-
Manual of Style: Down Time
April 13, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"

Portrait: Campus Photographers
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / April 10, 2017
The Maroon sat down with digital media artists Luke White and Chris D'Angelo.
-
UC Dancers Find “Home” in Mandel Hall
By Estelle Higgins, Contributor / April 10, 2017
-
The Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS) Cultural Show features many different Latin American dance styles.
OLAS Turns Up the Heat With Politically Charged Show
April 10, 2017
The fifth annual OLAS Cultural Show and Art Fair took place last Saturday night, exploring politics and art through artwork and performance.
UChicago Presents brought in pianist Ran Dank to perform politically inspired pieces last Friday.
Concert of Polish Works by Dank Teems with Subtle Politics
By Ivan Ost, Associate Arts Editor / April 10, 2017
Last Friday, Israeli pianist Ran Dank performed pieces with lyrical and political flair.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 10, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Gwendolyn Brooks's daughter, Nora Brooks Blakely, gave a speech at the opening night of "Centennial Brooks" last Thursday.
Communities Bond Over “Centennial Brooks”
By May Huang, Arts Editor / April 10, 2017
"Centennial Brooks" was a three-day event that celebrated the life and legacy of poet Gwendolyn Brooks through panels and performances.

UChicago’s First Arabic-Language Magazine Releases Second Issue
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / April 6, 2017
The “Winter 2017” edition showcases the work of 13 students–from first-years studying Intermediate Arabic to fourth-year, native-speaking Ph.D. students.
Afrofuturism Tries to Find its Footing in Virtual Reality
By Max Miller / April 6, 2017
The Stony Island Arts Bank showcased the work of Hyphen-Labs, a group of 10 female artists who seek to combine Afrofuturism, feminism, and science.
-
At “Yummy Yummy,” DoVA Students Deliver “Exceptionally Delicious Art”
By Renee Wah / April 6, 2017
DoVA's B.A. Thesis Exhibition brought goldfish, bubble wrap and surveillance cameras to the Logan Center.
-
Roomful of Teeth Makes Tongues Wag
By Chloé Bardin, Contributor / April 6, 2017
Vocal ensemble Roomful of Teeth explored the boundaries of the human voice.
-
Manual of Style: Wild Pair
April 6, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Raas originates in the northern Indian state of Gujarat and is typically performed at the Hindu festival Navratri. The dance mimics a swordfight.
That’s So South Asian: 30 Years of Channeling Diversity
April 3, 2017
The 30th annual South Asian Students Association (SASA) show filled Mandel Hall on Saturday with vibrant colors and choreography.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / April 3, 2017
What to do and where to go.
CSO Explores Late Schubert and Mahler, Albeit with a Mild Case of Hiccups
By Rebecca Julie, Deputy Arts Editor / April 3, 2017
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra's performance on Thursday reached nuanced heights at times and fell flat at others.
-
Manual of Style: Showing Skin
March 30, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires, "Who are you wearing?"
The Chicago Sinfonietta presented “More Than a Letter" last weekend to celebrate LGBTQ artists and classical music. Pictured: pianist Sara Davis Buechner.
Composers Come Out in Full Force in Sinfonietta’s Concert
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / March 30, 2017
Last week, the Chicago Sinfonietta presented “More Than a Letter,” celebrating classical music's once-closted greats.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / March 30, 2017
What to do and where to go.
A still from Julia Rose Camus's "BPM."
Fire Escape’s Winter Screening Heats Up Max Palevsky Cinema
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega and Nick Ogilvie / March 16, 2017
Fire Escape Films' winter premiere lineup was its most eclectic yet.

Hyde Park Choir to Perform at Kennedy Center in D.C.
By Grace Hauck and Michelle Brito / March 15, 2017
Le Cantanti di Chicago will perform a variety of arrangements throughout the weeklong event, in languages ranging from Spanish to Zulu.
Hana Eldoussky and Lexi Turner belt out a rock-ballad rendering of "Cape Feare."
Apu-calypse Now: Nuclear Fallout Meets “The Simpsons” in UT Play
By Nick Ogilvie / March 13, 2017
Meta theater and pop culture collide in the darkly wacky "Simpsons" parody "Mr. Burns, A Post-Electric Play".
In the Face of Modern Crisis, Medieval Studies Workshop Questions Discipline’s Own Role
By Max Miller / March 11, 2017
Four Academics Recently Led a Workshop Reasserting the Importance of Contemporary Medieval Studies
Third-year Emma Preston, second-year Tommy Zhang, and fourth-year Natalie Richardson sing about mud.
Underground Collective is More Than Just a Blur
By Natalie Pasquinelli, Associate Arts Editor / March 6, 2017
Members of the Underground Collective took to The Revival with song, poetry, and an exploration of firsts, from the first time in a city to the first time having sex.
CSO bassist Rob Kassinger took over JLCO bassist Carlos Henriquez’s instrument for the encore.
JLCO and CSO Join Bands to Jazz Up the Classics
By May Huang, Arts Editor / March 6, 2017
Friday evening marked the end of the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra's 3-day residency in Chicago, featuring a collaborative performance with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
900 Years Later, It’s Time to Include Women in the Narrative
By Brooke Nagler / March 6, 2017
"With her account of the literary works of female artists in oppressive institutions, Maraini provided a small glimpse into a world of literature left out of history."
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / March 6, 2017
What to do and where to go.
-
Manual of Style: Athlete + Aesthete
March 3, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
The Personal As Political in Art
By Renee Wah / March 2, 2017
An all-female panel of artists discuss art as resistance at the Center for the Study of Gender and Sexuality.
"Public Notice 2", a collection of over 4,000 fiberglass sculptures that invokes a historical speech by Gandhi.
His Muse Is Metaphysics:The Art of Jitish Kallat
By Nick Ogilvie / March 2, 2017
Renowned Indian contemporary artist Jitish Kallat discussed his exhibit "Here After Here" at Logan Center.
In the play, Kat (Emma Maltby) and Sam (Margaret Glazier) face the joys and pains of growing up.
“Watch Your Language, Cunt” Puts New Spin on Growing Up
By Abby Kuchnir / March 2, 2017
"Watch Your Language" is a classic bildungsroman of sisterhood and identity with a twist.
The American String Quartet performed with Sir Salman Rushdie in Mandel Hall on Friday.
Talking Art: Rushdie, American String Quartet Enchant Mandel
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / February 28, 2017
The British-Indian novelist partnered with the world-renowned American String Quartet for this weekend’s Midwest premier of composer Paul Cantelon’s Suite for "The Enchantress of Florence."
The Smart's latest exhibition, "Classicisms," celebrates works inspired by antiquity.
It’s Smart to Be Classic: New Exhibit Bridges Past and Present
By Chloé Bardin, Contributor / February 27, 2017
The Smart Museum celebrated the opening of its newest exhibition, "Classicisms," with performances, gallery tours, and more last Wednesday.
Last week, UT presented "Circe," an adaptation of James Joyce's "Ulysses" directed by fourth-year Gabriel Garey Levine.
Lucid Dream: UT’s “Circe” Both Nightmare and Fantasy
By Abby Kuchnir / February 27, 2017
UT's adaptation of "Circe" recreated James Joyce's "Ulysses" through innovative set design and circus arts.
Over 300 people attended the Middle Eastern Music Ensemble's annual Persian Concert.
Middle East Music Ensemble Performed Annual Persian Concert
By Camelia Malkami, Contributor / February 27, 2017
Over 45 performers participated in the Middle East Music Ensemble's Persian Concert last Saturday.
South Side Projections Screens Lost Tapes of the Coney Island Amateur Psychoanalytic Film Society
By Nik Varley, Contributor / February 27, 2017
South Side Projections screened psychoanalysis-inspired lost tapes compiled by Zoe Beloff of the Coney Island Amateur Psychoanalytic Film Society.
Third-year Hannia Frias performs a trapeze act.
Le Vorris & Vox Circus Soars to New Heights with Winter Showcase
By Estelle Higgins, Contributor / February 27, 2017
Le Vorris & Vox Circus presented its Winter Showcase last Friday, celebrating skills that its members have been honing all quarter.
The witch Pasquella, played by Christina Aruffo, addresses the audience.
PHOTO ESSAY: Lovers, Love-potions and Love-letters in Commedia’s “My Winter Valentine”
By Brooke Nagler / February 26, 2017
Commedia dell'Arte's quarterly play, My Winter Valentine, is a romantic farce wherein four men compete for the love of the rich widow La Signora, while their servants and children play out their own love affairs.
Robert Grosvenor’s "Untitled" dominates the Renaissance Society exhibition space.
Robert Grosvenor’s “Untitled” Evades Concrete Answers
By May Huang, Arts Editor / February 24, 2017
In admiring the brick, Grosvenor was also expressing empathy for the anonymous workers who had contributed their labor to something that would outlast them.
Fourth-year Serina Wu’s sketch offers a sneak peak of a dress design in her collection.
From the Quad to the Runway: MODA 2017
By Rebecca Julie, Deputy Arts Editor / February 24, 2017
Friday’s fashion show will allow Friedland and other fashion-savvy students on campus to design pieces for models a bit less elusive than, say, Zayn Malik.
Bell Grand Lake (Jacqueline Williams), First Lady (Linda Bright Clay), and Normal Beverly (Camille Robinson) harmonize at the hair salon.
“A Wonder in My Soul” Has Big Heart and Bigger Hair
By Emily Ehret, Associate Arts Editor / February 24, 2017
The play, set in the moments before President Obama’s 2008 election, zooms in on a very personal account of the interconnected lives of several black women.
From left to right: Jane Dailey, Ghenwa Hayek, Paola Iovene, Ada Palmer, and David Perry participated in the Chicago Journal of History's panel discussion, "History & Fiction: Narrative, Contexts and Imagination"
Who Tells Your Story: Fiction Has Its Eyes on You, History
By May Huang, Arts Editor / February 20, 2017
Four professors discuss the relationship between history and fiction in a panel discussion hosted by the Chicago Journal of History.
The monthly Hyde Park Handmade Bazaar took place last Sunday, February 19.
Monthly Bazaar Keeps Local Culture Close at Hand
By Kardelen Sertsoz / February 20, 2017
The Promontory was a hub for local art last Sunday as it hosted the monthly Hyde Park Handmade Bazaar.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / February 20, 2017
What to do and where to go.
The Bucking Mules take the stage.
Annual Music Festival Brings in Familiar Folks
By Brooke Nagler / February 16, 2017
The annual three-day Chicago Folk Festival kicked off last Friday night in Mandel Hall to continue a much-loved 57-year tradition.
Dancers filled C-Shop.
A Brief History of Swing Time at UChicago
By Brooke Nagler / February 16, 2017
Last Friday, CSDS celebrated 20 years of swing where it started: the coffee shop that put the “Java” in “Java Jive.”
Revisiting the Virus: Poignant Glimpse Into AIDS Epidemic Disturbs and Delights
By Max Miller / February 13, 2017
Doc Films screened the late ’80s low-budget art film "A Virus Knows No Morals" as part of its Film and AIDS: Early Queer Responses to the AIDS Epidemic series
Reg’s Répons to Boulez Honors Modern Musical Master
By Rebecca Julie, Deputy Arts Editor / February 13, 2017
The "Pierre Boulez" exhibit on the third floor of the Regenstein Library honors the famed composer, writer, and conductor's life and legacy.
The calm before the storm: Ed (Alan Wilder), Jake (Madison Dirks), Drew (Ryan Hallahan), and Matt (Brian Slaten) enjoy a Christmas Eve meal together before the holidays go hopelessly awry.
Who Runs the World? Still Straight White Men, With One Condition
By Hannah Edgar, Deputy Editor-in-Chief / February 13, 2017
Steppenwolf's new play, despite its title, proved to be much more nuanced than a mere takedown of privilege.
Happy Valentine's Day from Arts!
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / February 13, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Visitors purposely step on the chalk work of artist Akeem Haywood, which the artist intended to wear away.
A Taste of Black History Month at Sola Cafe
By Grace Hauck, Arts Editor / February 10, 2017
The Lutheran School of Theology is serving up a poignant exhibition by graphic artist Akeem Haywood and photojournalist-turned-J.D. Robert Pitts.
Barclay Crenshaw played Double Door music club last Saturday.
Barclay Crenshaw Launches Into Hip Hop With Debut Album Tour
By Tiffany Chen, Contributor / February 10, 2017
Claude VonStroke returned to his roots at Double Door on Saturday, debuting his self-titled, ten-track LP.
Rape Jokes Aren’t Funny: Jerrod Carmichael at Mandel
By Kardelen Sertsoz / February 10, 2017
Jerrod Carmichael made sexist jokes. No one laughed.
Stephen Burns hopes to encourage diversity through "Fulcrum Point New Music Project."
Balancing the Scales: Stephen Burns on Music, Otherness, and Inclusion
By Rebecca Julie, Deputy Arts Editor / February 6, 2017
Stephen Burns discusses the mission of diversity behind "Fulcrum Point New Music Project."
A dramatic pair, Gregory (Noel Rubio) and his mother Bobbie (River MacLeod) face off in an energetic argument in "A World of His Own, a Twilight Zone Parody."
The Core Gone Wild: Marx, Shakespeare, and Chekhov Unite for Weekend of Workshops
By Emily Ehret, Associate Arts Editor / February 6, 2017
UT's Weekend of Workshops proves that good things come in threes.
UChicago Chamber Orchestra Presents and Previews Songs of Drama and Dance
By Abby Kuchnir / February 6, 2017
The University of Chicago Chamber Orchestra channeled joy and drama with promises of more to come.
From Past to Present, UChicago Campus Is Home to Architectural Innovation
By Abby Kuchnir / February 6, 2017
The Chicago Society tapped into history of campus architecture through “Building the University.”
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / February 6, 2017
What to do and where to go.
lizzie6
UChicago Manual of Style: Bold Color
By MJ Chen, David Farr, and Christian Hill / February 3, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Customers enjoy coffee and snacks at Dollop.
A Dollop of Uptown on Campus North
By Evangeline Reid / February 2, 2017
Despite invoking a few Portland stereotypes, the Chicago-based chain Dollop Coffee Co. has fit right in on campus, pleasing foodies and café lovers alike.
MCA Hosts First Look of Subversive New Shows
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / February 2, 2017
Open TV describes itself as an “arts incubator in beta” which seeks to give queer, trans, and cis-women and people of color a media platform.
Deputy Arts Editor MJ Chen speaks to Maestro Frizza, who made his Lyric Opera debut conducting this season's production of "Norma."
In Conversation with Riccardo Frizza: The ABCs of a Bel Canto Opera
By MJ Chen, Arts Editor / February 2, 2017
"If you forget the orchestra, that means you are really concentrating on the story onstage."
Ballerinas form a diagonal in UBallet's production of "Swan Lake."
UBallet Takes Ballet Beginners Under Its Wing in Swan Lake
By Abby Kuchnir / January 30, 2017
New and experienced dancers soared together in UBallet's production of "Swan Lake."
Twenty One Pilots brought their “Emotional Roadshow World Tour" to Chicago last weekend, delivering a killer setlist and impressive stunts.
Fans Flip Out Over Eclectic Twenty One Pilots Show
By Alexia Bacigalupi, Arts Editor / January 30, 2017
Twenty One Pilots brought backflips and "Blurryface" to Chicago last weekend.
Poets Slam Down on Social Issues Through Verse
By Brooke Nagler / January 30, 2017
Kevin Kantor and Queen Sheba explore identity, sexual assault, and love through slam poetry.
Bill T. Jones, an award-winning HIV+ artist, dancer, director, writer, and choreographer, performed “Return” at the DuSable Museum of African American History on Friday, January 27th. Estelle Higgins.
Bill T. Jones Traverses Memory Through Dance at DuSable
By Nick Ogilvie / January 30, 2017
Bill T. Jones raises awareness for AIDS and taps into difficult memories through dance.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / January 30, 2017
What to do and where to go.
The Queen is Never Early: Logan Screens a Queer Cult Gem
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / January 27, 2017
" 'The Queen' has persisted over the years as a sort of legend of the drag culture of yesteryear, surviving in short iconic clips and memetic quotes floating around in queer media."
Jonathan6
UChicago Manual of Style: Social, Savvy Streetwear
By MJ Chen, David Farr, and Christian Hill / January 26, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Kapwani Kiwanga's exhibition explores the connection between interior design and institutional control.
Palette Control: Kapwani Kiwanga Adds Color to Authority
By May Huang, Arts Editor / January 26, 2017
An academic-turned artist, Kiwanga's work explores how institutions such as schools and prisons affect behavior.
Newcity Editor Relays Experience of Palestinian Art Biennial
By Max Miller / January 26, 2017
Newcity art editor Elliot Reichert came to campus to discuss his recent trip to Israel and Palestine, during which he attended the 2016 Qalandiya International Arts Festival.
Josh Ritter's cozy Chicago show was as laid-back and charming as his musical style.
Ritter’s Americana, From Moscow With Love
By Brooke White / January 26, 2017
"When a wine glass shattered in between song changes, Ritter joked, “That’s perfect for this song,” and everyone laughed."
Spektral Quartet is, from left to right: Doyle Armbrust, Clara Lyon, Maeve Feinberg, and Russell Rolen.
Grammy-Nominated Spektral Quartet Shares History and Jokes
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / January 24, 2017
The Chicago Maroon sits down with Spektral Quartet to talk their Grammy nomination, new album, and newest member.
(From left to right) Parris, Cooper, Meredith, and Turner as Guy, Delia, Sam, and Angel enjoy a spontaneous blues dance.
Court’s “Blues” Provides a Window Into a Renaissance
By Emily Ehret / January 23, 2017
Laughter, identity, and tragedy take center stage in Court Theatre's "Blues for an Alabama Sky."
From left to right: Monica Ellis, Jeff Scott, Toyin Spellman-Diaz, Mark Dover, and Valerie Coleman.
Imani Winds Champions Diversity of Repertoire and Race
By Rebecca Julie / January 23, 2017
Ensemble-in-residence Imami Winds discusses race, class, and privilege with the UChicago Chamber Music Organization.
They’re Back, Baby: Cleveland Orchestra Fills in for CSO at Symphony Center
By Zeke Gillman / January 23, 2017
The Cleveland Orchestra returns to Chicago, bringing music and applause.
Andrew Staples and Christiane Karg star in Lyric Opera's "The Magic Flute."
Mozart’s “The Magic Flute” Plays Chicago Both High and Low Notes
By Max Miller / January 23, 2017
Niel Armfield adapts Mozart's "The Magic Flute" for Lyric Opera.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / January 23, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Tien Tran (center) and Numero Uno’s ensemble deliver timely, if tired, laughs.
Great Laughs We’ve Heard Before
By Isaac Tannenbaum / January 19, 2017
"Trump is not the only butt of the political jokes, though...Former president Jimmy Carter even makes his own reality show—because if a reality star can become president, so can the reverse."
Chris Thile, host of A Prairie Home Companion, brought the popular radio show to Symphony Center with special guests Laura Marling and Andrew Bird.
Prairie Home: A Steadfast Companion in Trying Times
By Brooke Nagler / January 19, 2017
Chris Thile brought his mandolin talent and popular radio show, A Prairie Home Companion, to Symphony Center last weekend for a live recording.
Customizable rice bowl at Roti.
Rough ’n’ Roti: Mediterranean on 53rd
By Max Miller / January 18, 2017
I’m not sold on whether the “quick and dirty” format of food prep works in a Mediterranean restaurant.
Students captioned how they really felt on Polaroids in the Reynolds Club.
Espresso Yourself Without Stigma
By Grace Hauck / January 17, 2017
To conclude their second See Through Stigma (STS) Awareness Week, Axis UChicago and Active Minds teamed up to host a thought-provoking evening of visual art and performance.
-
Exhibit A
By Arts Staff / January 16, 2017
What to do and where to go.
Students captioned how they really felt on Polaroids in the Reynolds Club.
Espresso Yourself Without Stigma
By Grace Hauck / January 16, 2017
See Through Stigma encourages students to express themselves, stigma-free, at the "Arts Coffeehouse" through visual art and performances.
Post-rock band Tortoise performed on Wednesday night at musical festival Tomorrow Never Knows.
When It Comes to Post-Rock Influencers, It’s Tortoise All the Way Down
By Nik Varley / January 16, 2017
Tortoise concludes the first night of local music festival Tomorrow Never Knows with a post-rock sound to echo its Chicago roots.
Marianna Tax Choldin returns to UChicago to discuss her memoir, "Garden of Broken Statues: Exploring Censorship in Russia."
From the Quad to the Kremlin: Exploring Russian Censorship
By Caitlin Hubbard / January 16, 2017
Marianna Tax Choldin returned to UChicago last week to discuss her memoir, "Garden of Broken Statues: Exploring Censorship in Russia."
Nando's Peri-Peri brings spice and new flavors to the Hyde Park food scene.
Nando’s on 53rd Poised to Be Peri, Peri Good
By Brooke White / January 16, 2017
Nando's arrives in Hyde Park on Tuesday with a revamped interior and food that will bring the heat to winter quarter.
The Umbrellas of Cherbourg (1964) will be screened at Doc Films on Friday, March 3.
From Chaplin to Chinatown: Doc Curators Present Winter Lineup
By Evangeline Reid / January 16, 2017
Check out Doc Films' diverse lineup for winter quarter!
Dancers perform traditional Chinese dance in CUSA's adaptation of ancient Chinese legend, The Butterfly Lovers.
Photo Essay: CUSA Presents Modern Adaptation of Ancient Chinese Legend, “The Butterfly Lovers”
By Olivia Shao and Ruben Abbou / January 16, 2017
CUSA retells ancient legend, "The Butterfly Lovers," for the 21st century in its annual stage production.
rebecca
UChicago Manual of Style
January 13, 2017
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Maya’s “Beacon” Sheds Light on Interpretive Dance
By Nick Ogilvie / January 12, 2017
Maya's winter show embraces ambiguity and abstraction.
Lorenzo (Armando Riesco) and Millie (Alana Arenas) bring the trope of deeply flawed characters to a whole new level—and in "The Fundamentals," they're in good company.
Fundamental Flaws Trip Up New Play at Steppenwolf
By Natalie Pasquinelli / January 12, 2017
While not without promising moments, Steppenwolf's The Fundamentals ultimately chokes on its own plot.
The original members of the Newberry Consort (David Douglass, Ellen Hargis, Mary Springfels, and Drew Minter) reunite for a concert at Logan Center.
Newberry Consort Performs the Music of Oswald von Wolkenstein
By Rebecca Julie / January 12, 2017
The Newberry Consort takes to the Logan Center with the music of 14th Century poet, composer, and diplomat Oswald von Wolkenstein, a true Renaissance man.
Mia (Emma Stone) and Sebastian (Ryan Gosling) dance in a scene from La La Land.
“La La Land” Taps Into Nostalgia on the 405
By Alexia Bacigalupi / January 9, 2017
Over the top but deliciously earnest, "La La Land" explores how one can balance love and the pursuit of art, if at all.
Dean Boyer is featured in improv comedy alongside students and faculty in The Revival's The Hutchins Plan.
History, Hysterics, and The Dun
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / January 9, 2017
Dean Boyer participates in improv comedy with students and faculty in The Revival's The Hutchins Plan.
The first public reading of Writers Resist Chicago will be held at Open Books in the West Loop at noon on Sunday, January 15.
Words Take Action at Chicago Writers Resist
By May Huang / January 9, 2017
Free readings will be held all over Chicago on January 15 as part of Writers Resist.
-
Arts This Week
By Arts Staff / January 9, 2017
What to do and where to go
A young woman raising her fist in a show of pride and determination during an open-housing march through the streets of Chicago.
New Book Captures Civil Rights Struggles Beyond the South
January 5, 2017
The Maroon sat down with author and historian Mark Speltz, whose new book focuses on Civil Rights efforts outside the South.
A young woman raising her fist in a show of pride and determination during an open-housing march through the streets of Chicago.
New Book Captures Civil Rights Struggles Beyond the South
January 5, 2017
The Maroon sat down with author and historian Mark Speltz, whose new book focuses on Civil Rights efforts outside the South.
A young woman raising her fist in a show of pride and determination during an open-housing march through the streets of Chicago.
New Book Captures Civil Rights Struggles Beyond the South
January 5, 2017
The Maroon sat down with author and historian Mark Speltz, whose new book focuses on Civil Rights efforts outside the South.
A young woman raising her fist in a show of pride and determination during an open-housing march through the streets of Chicago.
New Book Captures Civil Rights Struggles Beyond the South
January 5, 2017
The Maroon sat down with author and historian Mark Speltz, whose new book focuses on Civil Rights efforts outside the South.
A young woman raising her fist in a show of pride and determination during an open-housing march through the streets of Chicago.
New Book Captures Civil Rights Struggles Beyond the South
January 5, 2017
The Maroon sat down with author and historian Mark Speltz, whose new book focuses on Civil Rights efforts outside the South.
"Sky Landing" by Yoko Ono
Yoko Ono Sculpture Lands in Jackson Park
By Evangeline Reid / November 29, 2016
This fall Yoko Ono installed her new sculpture “Sky Landing” on the newly renovated Wooded Island in Jackson Park.
mosdouble
UChicago Manual of Style
November 29, 2016
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra's MusicNOW program celebrated famed contemporary composer Steve Reich's 80th birthday with a special performance at the Harris Theater.
Different Quatrains: A Steve Reich Celebration at the Harris Theater
By Christopher Good / November 29, 2016
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s MusicNOW program pays tribute to an avant-garde all-star.
When Life Gives You Potatoes, Make an Opera
By Nick Ogilvie / November 29, 2016
Everyone's favorite fairytale, with a post-modern twist.
-
Arts This Week
By Arts Staff / November 29, 2016
What to do and where to go
-
Photo Essay: Iphigenia and Other Daughters
By Zoe Kaiser / November 28, 2016
Iphigenia and Other Daughters, written by Ellen McLaughlin and directed by Lexi Turner for University Theatre this fall, is a three-part retelling of the ancient Greek tragedy of the Orestes cycle.
-
After the Revolution Play
By Zoe Kaiser / November 23, 2016
After the Revolution, a play written by Amy Herzog and directed by third-year Megan Philippi, depicts the story of a Marxist family thrown into conflict when an unpleasant truth about the family's much-venerated grandfather comes to light.
double terry
UChicago Manual of Style
By Jessica Hwang / November 22, 2016
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Audience UnconVinced by MAB Fall Show
By Garrett Williams / November 21, 2016
Turn-up-ready attendees were confronted with unexpectedly dark tones and haunting drones at MAB’s weekend festivities featuring Vince Staples.
Tess Barker, Barbara Gray and Brandie Posey, are the ladies behind the podcast "Lady to Lady".
Comedy and Social Commentary in First Chicago Podcast Festival
By Brooke Nagler / November 21, 2016
The Chicago Podcast Festival debuted this weekend, hosting comedians, actors, musicians, and storytellers who sang, laughed, cried, drank, told stories, and delivered social commentary.
Electra (Kate Fry) and Clytemnestra (Sandra Marquez) are at the heart of this family tragedy.
“Electra”fying Performance at the Court Theatre
By Emily Ehret / November 21, 2016
Court Theatre’s "Electra" is stunning, thought-provoking, and accessible even to those not well-versed in Greek tragedy.
double
UChicago Manual of Style
November 17, 2016
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
double
UChicago Manual of Style
November 17, 2016
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Symphony Orchestras Have a Race, Class Problem
By Zeke Gillman / November 17, 2016
Ph.D. candidate Thalea Stokes explored the problem of diversity in symphony orchestras.
Missy Aguilar as Daniela and the cast of In The Heights perform "Carnaval Del Barrio".
Porchlight’s Rich Portrait of “The Heights” & Home
By Emily Ehret / November 17, 2016
Porchlight's lively production of "In the Heights" at Stage 773 ignites a dialogue on cultural identity.
“We wanted the album to have an aquatic feeling, like you’re underwater and shit,” said Rüfüs Du Sol's James Hunt.
RÜFÜS DU SOL Blossoms on “Bloom” Tour
By Tiffany Chen / November 17, 2016
On its first international tour, RÜFÜS DU SOL channels idiosyncrasy and jellyfish.
Jacob Oden is one of four student chefs cooking with Nous.
Cooking with Nous, 11/5: DIY Kale Kimchi and Hoisin-Glazed Crackling Pork Belly
By MJ Chen and Alex Ye / November 15, 2016
"Nous" is the Greek word for mind, or intellect. It also puns nicely with the French for “us." As in, come eat with us—food cooked from the heart, with the spirit of rigorous inquiry.
Nationally-renowned activist poet performs “Million Dollar Melanin”, a poem about the societal and personal history of black discrimination and the journey of self-worth.
77 Beats Gives Final Performance
By Alexandra Davis, Estelle Higgins, and Camelia Malkami / November 15, 2016
77 Beats, a citywide initiative that brings together performers from Chicago's 77 community areas, gives their final performance at the Logan Center on November 11th.
Rose petals are piled on a plate as part of the preparation for the Diwali Puja.
Students Celebrate the Festival of Lights
By Ahona Mukherjee / November 15, 2016
Students gathered in Rockefeller Chapel on November 4th to celebrate Diwali Puja.
New York strip steak garnished with cremini mushrooms and guacamole, from Nous 02/13/16
Diner chez Nous: Campus Supper Club Serves Up Unpretentious Flair
By Natalie Pasquinelli / November 15, 2016
Nous is a supper club started by third-year Alex Ye out of his apartment serving impressive food in a low-key setting.
Soloist Michael Nagy, conductor Jaap van Zweden, soprano soloist Christiane Karg in front of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
What Died? Funeral Music at the CSO
By Bryan McGuiggin / November 14, 2016
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra of Brahms, Mozart and Wagner offered the audience a moment of reflection, an escape from an otherwise tumultuous week.
"Thank You For Your Service" provides a touching look at how PTSD affects American soldiers returning home from the Iraq war.
Documentary Screening Honors Veterans Day
By Abby Kuchnir / November 14, 2016
The Maroon Veterans Alliance screened a documentary chronicling Iraq War veterans’ struggles with PTSD.
Lysander (Ryan Belongie) and Helena (Alexandra Martinez) share an intimate embrace.
Baroqueback Mountain: Purcell’s “Fairy Queen” Goes to Vegas
By Roberto Velasco-Alvarez / November 14, 2016
Las Vegas and the Baroque met in a wild adaptation of Henry Purcell’s "The Fairy Queen" by the Chicago Opera Theater.
-
Arts This Week
By Arts Staff / November 14, 2016
What to do and where to go.
Isaiah Newman's set design featured puns on Shakespeare’s other plays.
To Err is Human, and Also Hilarious
By Nick Ogilvie / November 14, 2016
UT brought "The Comedy of Errors" to life as self-aware and cheerfully self-deprecating.
double
UChicago Manual of Style
November 10, 2016
The Maroon's fashion feature rigorously inquires: "Who are you wearing?"
Hamilton has come to Chicago, one of the most diverse cities in America, but its audiences are shockingly white.
“Hamilton” in Chicago: Who Hears Your Story?
By Emily Ehret / November 10, 2016
"Hamilton" has come to Chicago, one of the most diverse cities in America, but its audiences are —unsurprisingly—white.
Comedian T Murph has appeared in shows like "Chicago Fire" and "Key & Peele.
Race, Pain, and Laughter at The Revival
By Nick Ogilvie / November 8, 2016
Dave Jeff brings humor and insight to The Revival through "Word Play," challenging social injustices through media such as hip-hop, spoken word, and stand-up.
-
Photo Essay: Korean Traditional Dance at International House
By Estelle Higgins and Olivia Shao / November 8, 2016
Elementary-aged children through adults competed for a grand prize at the 2016 International Korean Traditional Performing Arts Competition, an event sponsored with the Consulate General of the Republic of Korea.
The Blue Man Group uses avocado-based cerulean paint to achieve their signature look.
Blue Man Group Shows Color with Humor and Social Commentary
By Abby Kuchnir / November 8, 2016
The Blue Man Group brings characteristic humour and eccentric flair to Chicago as it challenges conformity and addresses social issues.
James Levine hits a home run with the CSO
By Rebecca Julie / November 8, 2016
Conductor James Levine returned to the Chicago Symphony Orchestra for a special appearance after concluding his tenure at the Met, closing a triumphant concert with the memorable "Symphonie Fantastique" by Berlioz.
-
Arts This Week
By Maroon Staff / November 8, 2016
What to do and where to go.
James Levine hits a home run with the CSO
By Rebecca Julie / November 7, 2016
TBD
Race, Pain, and Laughter at The Revival
By Nick Ogilvie / November 7, 2016
TBD
Blue Man Group Show Color with Humor and Social Commentary
By Abby Kuchnir / November 7, 2016
The Blue Man Group brings characteristic humour and
The sculpture in January 1970, the month during which it was encased in concrete.
History of Art, University Cemented in Concrete Cadillac
By May Huang / November 3, 2016
A colossal conservation effort brings Wolf Vostell's public Fluxus sculpture, "Concrete Traffic," back to campus after almost eight years. "Concrete Happenings" will feature a program of diverse art events until next spring.
A still from "Moonlight," directed by Barry Jenkins and based on a play by Tarell Alvin McCraney.
Moonlight Director, Playwright Talk Identity
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / November 3, 2016
Barry Jenkins and Tarell McCraney of "Moonlight" expand on the film's themes of race, sexuality, and gender.
Timid Soloist Undercuts Bold Conducting at CSO
By Rebecca Julie / November 3, 2016
Sibelius's violin concerto fell flat with soloist Baiba Skride, but conductor Andrés Orozco-Estrada led the Chicago Symphony Orchestra with the boldness it deserves.
Timid Soloist Undercuts Bold Conducting at CSO
By Rebecca Julie / November 3, 2016
TBD
History of Art, University Cemented in Concrete Cadillac
By May Huang / November 3, 2016
Wolf Vostell's public sculpture, "Concrete Traffic," finds it way back to campus after almost 8 years. "Concrete Happenings" will feature // until next spring,
A recreation of Monet’s “Bouquet of Sunflowers” on the walls of Linn-Matthews by Amber Estes and Rachel Hildebrand.
Creating Ephemeral Art is an Enduring Tradition in Burton-Judson Houses
By Brooke Nagler / October 31, 2016
Chalk it up to house tradition: Murals line the brick walls of Burton-Judson, inspired by sources from Degas to Sherlock Holmes.
 
USO Concert Casts Spell on Audience
By Zeke Gillman and May Huang / October 31, 2016
"Magic, Curses, and Spells": University Symphony Orchestra channels Halloween with Tchaikovsky and Harry Potter.
-
Arts This Week
By Arts Staff / October 31, 2016
What to do and where to go.
From left to right: Sarah Midori Perry, Jamie Bulled, and Gus Lobban.
Candy-Coated Casios: The Sweet Global-Pop of Kero Kero Bonito
By Christopher Good / October 27, 2016
On its second outing, Kero Kero Bonito's Tokyo-by-way-of-London sound hits its stride.
Andrew (Ian Barford) shares a moment with TV (Sally Murphy).
“Visiting Edna” to Find Beauty in Pain
By Natalie Pasquinelli / October 27, 2016
At Steppenwolf, "Visiting Edna" captures the struggle to connect meaningfully with a loved one.
Lady Gaga's Joanne trades the old, flashy Gaga for a new, more subdued version of the star.
Lady Gaga’s “Joanne” is No Scam
By Jonathan Hogeback / October 27, 2016
"Joanne" is Lady Gaga’s fourth studio album, and it positions itself as a deviation from the star’s norm.
Weekend of Workshops: These Plays Are Lit
By Natalie Pasquinelli / October 27, 2016
Up this quarter: "Dusk Before Fireworks" directed by Sophie Downes and "Selections from Dorian Gray" by Abigail Hunter.
Comedian Daniel Strauss in a scene from Second City’s 104th Revue, "Fool Me Twice, Déjà Vu".
Except the Things I’d Change: Second City Reflects
By G. Cyrus Pacht / October 24, 2016
"Fool Me Twice, Déjà Vu" delivers political comedy with music and wit.
Reg Showcases Wiesel’s Legacy
By Rebecca Julie / October 24, 2016
Regenstein Library collects art inspired by the Holocaust in memory of the late Nobel Peace Prize-winning author Elie Wiesel.
CSO Revives the Revolution
By Bryan McGuiggin / October 24, 2016
Soloist Emanuel Ax showcased a nuanced Beethoven Piano Concerto no. 1, a conventional work that proves anything but.
The plush red chairs in Doc Films's Max Palevsky Theater.
Japanese Anime “Beyond Ghibli” at Doc Films
By Henry Bacha / October 24, 2016
For the third time in its 76-year history, Doc Films presents a series of anime films as part of its diverse fall quarter line-up.
-
Arts This Week
By Arts Staff / October 24, 2016
What to do and where to go.
As Lucia, soprano Albina Shagimuratova devastates in the infamous mad scene.
Mad Treat: Lyric’s “Lucia” Has Blood Coming Out of Her Wherever
By MJ Chen / October 21, 2016
An operatic Simone Biles, Shagimuratova delivered on the floor in Olympic fashion—equal parts art and power.
Lesbian Brokeback: Park’s “The Handmaiden” Gets Hands-On
October 20, 2016
Park Chan-wook’s erotic psychological thriller is spellbindingly beautiful.
Moholy-Nagy's work plays with light, space and perspective.
At Art Institute, Moholy-Nagy Finds Unity in Future Present
By Roberto Velasco-Alvarez / October 20, 2016
Moholy-Nagy created art not only about the future but also for the future.
Humanities Day Celebrates Questions, Culture, and Man
By Zeke Gillman / October 20, 2016
UChicago faculty open their lecture halls to the public for Humanities Day.
A minimalist set complements s contemporary take on an iconic scene
Joffrey’s Romeo & Juliet Balances the Classical and Contemporary
By Lela Jenkins / October 18, 2016
A meditation on conflict, Joffrey's "Romeo and Juliet" teaches an old play new ballet.
Clowning Around with Elizabethan “SNL”
By Rebecca Julie / October 17, 2016
In "The Clown," Newberry Consort marries music and improv—with a hefty dose of The Bard.
Boxer Emile Griffith struggles with both his opponents and himself in a performance written by Pulitzer and Tony Award-winning playwright Michael Cristoffer
Court’s “Man in the Ring” Stuns in Closing Weekend
By Emily Ehret / October 17, 2016
A world premiere by playwright Michael Cristofer throws viewers into the world of boxer Emile Griffith.
The CSO performed its annual free concert to an enthusiastically vocal crowd.
Fraternité and Free Music Ring With CSO
By May Huang / October 17, 2016
Most importantly, the Apostolic Church of God was filled with people of all ages who loved what they heard.
Actor Jarkko Lahti takes the lead in this romance driven film in Juho Kuosmanen's directorial debut.
Finnish Biopic Pulls Punches and Heartstrings
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / October 17, 2016
"Olli Mäki" at Chi Film Fest: The camerawork has a documentary quality to it.
-
Arts This Week
By Arts Staff / October 17, 2016
What to do and where to go.
The Seminary Co-Op, Remembered
By Kardelen Sertsoz / October 13, 2016
While students know the Seminary Co-Op to be bright and airy, it wasn’t always so.
In Cristian Mungiu's Graduation, a father (Adrian Titieni) struggles with his daughter's (Maria-Victoria Dragus) sexual assault ahead of her final exams.
Double the Drama: Graduation, Neruda Hit Chi Film Fest Cum Laude
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / October 13, 2016
Resident film critic Kenneth claps back with a double-feature review.
Kagawa's October 8 performance in Fulton Recital Hall, though a compilation of newer and older works, was forward-thinking in its social commentary.
Kagawa Harmonizes History and Future
By Henry Bacha / October 13, 2016
Gracious and joyous, Ryo Kagawa’s performance at Fulton was his first live appearance in North America.
In his keynote address for the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs Heritage Series, author and hip-hop scholar Jeff Chang examined the role of culture as an instrument for political change.
Race, Culture, and Inequality: Jeff Chang Promises We Gon’ Be Alright
By Maya Nguen / October 13, 2016
Chang posed his question, "Where does culture lead us?" in the context of race relations.
From left to right: Molly Ruthenberg, Sam Taylor, Aadam Keeley, Terrence Carey, Wanjiku Kairu, Shannon Noll comprise the cast of Trigger, the Revival's first sketch comedy revue.
Trigger’d: The Revival a Safe Space for Comedy
By Natalie Pasquinelli / October 13, 2016
Comedy about politics need not be political, and often is not.
A girl peruses donated books.
Finding Value at the 10th Annual Hyde Park Used Book Sale
By May Huang / October 10, 2016
On Monday, the last day of the sale, customers could pay $4 for all the books they could fit in a bag.
The Sky Trembles, Fails to Impress
By Alston Boyd / October 10, 2016
Director Ben Rivers seemed so concerned with making true art that he forgot to check if it was good.
Campfire Girls, by Kerry James Marshall, explores black identity, a dominant theme in his work.
MCA Panel Discusses Black Identity, Beyoncé, and Beyond
By Alexia Bacigalupi / October 10, 2016
“Why is it that black American culture has never put itself forward as a currency, as having value?"
Lingering shots build tension in the film, which took Best Screenplay at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival.
Chi Film Fest: The Salesman Peddles Meditative Drama
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / October 10, 2016
Farhadi's approach is akin to sinking into a warm bath, the water rising up and enveloping the body.
-
Arts This Week
By Maroon Staff / October 10, 2016
What to do and where to go
Imani Winds, the oldest active woodwind quintet in the world, is the new Don Michael Randel ensemble-in-residence at the University of Chicago.
Ensemble-in-Residence Brings Winds of Change to Campus
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / October 6, 2016
They called themselves Imani Winds, after the Swahili word for “faith.”
In All Stars 2, queens who couldn't make it to the top in RuPaul's Drag Race are given their shot at redemption.
Queens Behaving Badly: Drag Race All Stars Shoots for the Finish
By MJ Chen / October 6, 2016
RuPaul's Drag Race is mainstream now—there’s no denying that fact.
That's the way the cookie crumbles at Insomnia, now located in Campus North.
Cookies That Deliver—All Night Long
By Evangeline Reid / October 6, 2016
A bourgeois delight worth the price.
-
Smart Exhibits Snapshot of History and Humanity
By May Huang / October 3, 2016
In this way, the exhibition captures the spirit of photography—its ability to capture moments, preserve them in their time and place, yet embody a sense of timelessness for the people who view them generations later.
Renaissance Society Examines Heaven on Urth
By Natalie Pasquinelli / October 3, 2016
The films and the space that houses them are uncanny, teetering just outside the realm of realistic representation.
Hermione (Michaela Voit, fourth year) confronts Leontes (Alex Morales, fourth year).
A Winter’s Tale of Warmth, Intimacy, and Music
By Emily Ehret / October 3, 2016
The instant intimacy of the setting promised what any good Shakespeare production should: theater up close, evocative, and timelessness.
University of Chicago professor of composition and Grammy Award–winning composer Augusta Read Thomas is the creator and head curator of the Ear Taxi Festival.
Ear Taxi Festival Gives Local Composers a Lyft
By Rebecca Julie / September 29, 2016
“I think the contemporary classical music scene in Chicago is the best in the United States. I feel very strongly about it,” Thomas said.
-
Arts This Week
By Evangeline Reid / September 29, 2016
Arts, briefly.
An Irreverent Welcome Letter
By Evangeline Reid and MJ Chen / September 29, 2016
A letter to our dear readers.
UT’s Season Falls Into Place
By Emily Ehret / September 29, 2016
This season aims to deliver fresh ideas while championing UT’s commitment to student involvement.
While Lyon was a decent student, he dedicated much more time to CORE than to the Core.
Message to the Now: Zooming Out With Danny Lyon
By Grace Hauck / September 23, 2016
While Lyon was a decent student, he dedicated much more time to CORE than to the Core.
Andrew Bird will return to Chicago for a hometown show at Jay Pritzker Pavilion on September 7.
The Reluctant Confessor: Andrew Bird Opens Up About Newest Album
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / September 5, 2016
“I didn’t set out to make a personal record, but so much had happened in that four or five years that it would have been conspicuous to not write about it. I call the record Are You Serious because I surprised myself.”
Chance the Rapper and Jeremih perform for a hometown crowd on July 17.
Pitchfork Take Two: Saxophones, Blue Stage Struggles, and a Taste of Summer Breeze
By Miriam Benjamin / August 24, 2016
“Jeremih spent an hour getting everyone good and horny, and so ‘Panda’ functioned as a collective orgasm — people literally lost their minds.”
The 1975 appeals to a fervent fanbase of young women—most of whom weren't even alive in 1975.
Who Gets The 1975 Best? “Just Girls”—and for Good Reason
By Miriam Benjamin / August 10, 2016
“If Healy can make being unable to get it up sound beautiful, your daily struggle to get someone to text you back, your teenage boredom, and your stained period panties can be beautiful too.”
Riccardo Muti praises Reiner's legacy next to the Symphony Center's new bronze likeness of the maestro.
CSO Unveils Fritz Reiner Bust at Symphony Center
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / June 15, 2016
"The legend of the Chicago Symphony . . . was made by Fritz Reiner.”
Daniel Gingrich gave a rousing performance of Mozart's Horn Concerto No. 3, conducted by Edo de Waart.
CSO and De Waart Put the “Classic” in Classical Music
By Eleanor Hyun / June 8, 2016
"There is something oddly refreshing about hearing an old-school concert. . ."
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / May 30, 2016
Arts, briefly.
CSO Serves Up Program to Satisfy All Palates
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 30, 2016
Which of the two was the main course, however, depends on who you ask.
 
UChicago Clothesline Project Gives Voice to the Unheard
By May Huang / May 30, 2016
“We see the value in art as a form of healing, expression, and community building,” Keisler said.
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / May 27, 2016
Arts, briefly.
 
Seven Concerts in Seven Days: Aca-scuse Me?
By Grace Hauck / May 26, 2016
"The show coming up next Wednesday is an album release concert for our new record Medusa Complex, which we have been working on for a little more than two years."
Cai's chicken and fish fried rice packs a salty surprise.
Chicago’s Chinatown: High on MSG, Low on Authenticity
By Alex Ye / May 26, 2016
Order plenty of rice to survive the inevitable hell.
Barbara Schubert leads the University Symphony Orchestra in October for a special rehearsal in  Orchestra Hall.
Uncommon Interview: Barbara Schubert Reflects on 40 Years With the USO
By Rebecca Julie / May 26, 2016
"I’m conducting, and hopefully bringing some insight and hopefully a great deal of joy to a lot of people, and that is my purpose."
 
Pop-up Museum on Quad Sheds Light on Sexual Assault
By Kardelen Sertsoz / May 23, 2016
At night, the museum was lit up with string lights—a quiet tribute to the stories contained within it.
 
Nations Convene in Vibrant Performances at I-House
By Karyn Peyton / May 23, 2016
FunkaDesi, a Chicago-based multicultural band, punched up the atmosphere with an eclectic set and saxophone-flute solos.
 
Seminary Co-Op Celebrates 55 Years of Getting Lost in Lit
By Zeke Gillman / May 23, 2016
In an age that emphasizes immediacy, the Seminary Co-Op remains one of the few bookstores that values patience in the search of a book.
 
Lang Lang’s Overblown CSO Appearance Even Flashier Than Fireworks
By Eleanor Hyun / May 23, 2016
But Lang Lang is no Yo-Yo Ma. Unlike Ma, who is arguably one of, if not the most famous classical musicians alive today, Lang Lang’s celebrity is puzzling.
Chance Colors Outside the Lines at Listening Party
By Miriam Benjamin / May 23, 2016
Chance made good on the following line, too: “Make you remember how to smile good.”
Students attend a Jeremih performance at Summer Breeze 2016.
Summer Breeze Was Frozen, Let it Go
By Miriam Benjamin / May 19, 2016
If Jeremih can party in Vegas the night before Summer Breeze, fly cross-country, and blow through a bang-up performance at Summer Breeze, bitching about the weather seems unreasonable. Look to Jeremih’s example. Be more like Jeremih.
 
SAIC Fashion Showcase Immerses Viewers in Nature
By Alexia Bacigalupi / May 19, 2016
A collection that at a distance looked like red, white, and black Power Ranger suits turned out to be cut up and repurposed sneakers forming a muzzle and handbag, perhaps addressing the noxious and overpowering consumerism rampant in modern society. .
 
Body of Artists Tackles Campus Issues at The Revival
By Kardelen Sertsoz / May 19, 2016
The show was unapologetic in its approach to today’s issues: spoken word pieces on sexual assault and eating disorders and a slam poem on fraternity culture expressed hot topics on campus.
Signed to the Streets: UChicago Professor Explores Connection Between South Side Gangs and Drill Rap
By Miriam Benjamin / May 19, 2016
You can’t understand gang violence—and you certainly can’t understand youth culture in Chicago—without thinking long and hard about music.
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / May 19, 2016
arts, briefly.
Winter Freeze Comes to Summer Breeze
By Arts Staff / May 16, 2016
Highlight reel of the lineup at this year's Summer Breeze.
 
Finding Art in Empty Spaces: Between the Ticks of the Watch at Renaissance Society
By May Huang / May 16, 2016
“It was good to start a new centennial by asking questions.”
In Heaven With Twin Peaks at Lincoln Hall
By Miriam Benjamin / May 16, 2016
Disoriented by 40 minutes of straight moshing, I could’ve sworn he was a giant flying squirrel.
Jazz singer Sarah Vaughan at New York City's Café Society in 1946.
Chicago Jazz Orchestra Honors Sarah Vaughan with Special Concert
By Eleanor Hyun / May 16, 2016
Critics have marveled at how powerful her immense, three-octave vocal range remained, even as she grew older. She gave performances until she was diagnosed with lung cancer at age 66.
Pictures that Max Asaf found in his father’s closet are the basis for his documentary, Memories From a Vanished World.
Film by UChicago Student Director Is Cannes-Bound
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / May 12, 2016
"Asaf juxtaposes these photographs of the past with modern-day footage he collected on a trip to Israel, fostering interaction between images 'signifying absence of the past' and those 'showing life that now exists.'"
Packed’s dumplings lacked originality. Now Packed is sacked. 
All Packed Up and Ready to Go
By Alex Ye / May 12, 2016
"Did the corn dog really need to be in dumpling form?"
The Chicago Improv Festival is a mecca for comedy troupes all over the world, like New Zealand’s Improv Bandits, pictured here during the 17th Annual Festival in 2014.
Chicago Improv Festival Is Where Stars Are Born
By Ryan Fleishman / May 12, 2016
"Chicago has become the mecca of improvisation, nurturing stars such as Tina Fey, Stephen Colbert, and countless Saturday Night Live cast members."
RBIM’s CONTINUUM Offers Continuous Enthusiasm
By Alexia Bacigalupi / May 12, 2016
"The energy among the dancers was high as they twisted onstage in coordinated jumps, head tosses, and complex formations."
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / May 12, 2016
arts, briefly.

Love in This Club, in Theory
By Grace Hauck / May 12, 2016
"The sold-out event—limited to 150 pairs of wireless headphones—ran for two hours and featured tracks by artists like DJ Sprinkles, Mark Fell, and Raw Silk."
A performance at Dal Niente's Party 2016 combines cutting-edge music with performance art.
Ensemble Dal Niente Celebrates 10 Years of Eclectic Musicmaking
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 10, 2016
-
Tradition and modernity come together in Navarasa: Reimagined, Exploring Classical Emotions through Pure Dance.
Apsara Reimagines Classical Indian Dance With Navarasa
By May Huang / May 9, 2016
Eight emotions were featured in the show: happiness, anger, wonder, fear, heroism, love, sorrow, and peace. Each dance was choreographed to reflect that particular emotion.
Weiner follows the 2013 mayoral campaign of former New York congressman Anthony Weiner, who resigned in 2011 amid a scandal where a series of lewd photos were leaked. 
From Weiner to Loser: The Fall of a Representative
By Zeke Gillman / May 9, 2016
The film ably demonstrates the effects of the scandal on Weiner’s two marriages: to his city, and to his wife.
Ensemble Dal Niente Celebrates 10 Years of Out-of-the-Box Musicmaking
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 9, 2016
“It’s not gonna get any more in-the-box,” Lewanski predicted. “I suspect that it’ll only get weirder.”
Spinning With the Pride of the South Side
By Grace Hauck / May 8, 2016
“Our unwritten rule is to play music that other sources wouldn’t be playing.”
WHPK: Spinning With the Pride of the South Side
By Grace Hauck / May 6, 2016
"My estimate is that we have somewhere around 30,000 records—and that’s just vinyl."
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / May 6, 2016
Arts, briefly.
Bernard Haitink, pictured here from a 2007 performance with the CSO, led the orchestra in Strauss’ epic Alpine Symphony.
Haitink Proves Able Storyteller at CSO with Mozart, Strauss
By MJ Chen / May 6, 2016
"The challenge in playing Mozart is playing so that the audience hears it again for the first time."
Daniel Grambow, general director of the Floating Opera Company, and Anthony Freud, general director of Lyric Opera, spoke at the Intercollegiate Finance Journal’s speaker event, “Opera­nomics,” on May 3.
Panel Navigates the Economic Viability of Opera
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 6, 2016
“I think it’s impossible for opera to die, because there are so many people [out there] who are making it continue.”
Dr. Jennifer Richardson lectured on Beyoncé’s tilt toward pop-as-politics, particularly in her latest album, Lemonade. 
Lecturer Gets Fingers Sticky With Lemonade
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 2, 2016
“Beyoncé whitened herself in an attempt to be ‘palatable’ by a culture that needed her to be that [way], and she’s aware of that: she critiques that in ‘Pretty Hurts,’ she critiques that in Lemonade.”
 
54th Annual FOTA Springs Into Art
By Eleanor Hyun / May 2, 2016
FOTA’s goal is to expose students to all forms of art regardless of their prior experience with the art world. “We try to get everybody involved in making art or just appreciate something new. [For example,] whether they like painting or ballet, they also get to see fashion.”.
The cast of Second City's A Red Line Runs Through It includes veteran comedians Scott Morehead and Lisa Beasley.
All Trains Lead to Second City e.t.c’s 40th Revue
By Ryan Fleishman / May 2, 2016
No other theater could get away with stealing a Divvy bike for a single joke.
From Saved to Savior: Jimmy Santiago Baca Gives Back Through Poetry
By May Huang / May 2, 2016
The story of Baca as a convict-turned-poet suggests that he has “made it.” However, Baca insisted that he does not understand what “making it” means, saying that he does not take himself seriously, nor does he feel the need for external validation.
José Orduña reads an excerpt from his book The Weight of Shadows: A Memoir of Immigration & Displacement in International House’s Coulter Lounge on April 28.
José Orduña Speaks on Immigration, American Dream
By Christina Cano / April 29, 2016
Immigrant rights activist José Orduña discussed his autobiography, The Weight of Shadows: A Memoir of Immigration & Displacement, yesterday in International House’s Coulter Lounge.
 
Inaugural Campus—South Side Festival Puts the “Art” in Partnership
By May Huang / April 28, 2016
". . . the main goal of the event was to bridge the gap between the University and its surrounding community."
The Pacifica Quartet, the University’s former ensemble-in-residence, concluded its residency with a concert on campus last Sunday.
After 17 Years, Ensemble-in-Residence Bids Farewell to UChicago
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 28, 2016
"The people we used to coach are out in the world now doing all sorts of things . . ."
Girl & the Goat is run by Stephanie Izard, winner of Bravo's Top Chef. 
Alex’s Food Journal: Girl & the Goat, Shared Plates With Best Mates
By Alex Ye / April 28, 2016
"I made a reservation for Girl & the Goat the moment I set foot on campus this spring quarter."
Social entrepreneur Saudia Davis moderated yesterday's conversation.
DuSable Museum Hosts Roundtable With Renowned Composers
By Grace Hauck / April 28, 2016
"Up until the 1980s, an artist could get an individual grant of up to half a million dollars either through the National Endowment for the Arts or through the National Endowment for the Humanities," El’zabar said.
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / April 28, 2016
Arts, briefly.
 
Smart Museum Celebrates Spring with Garden Soirée
By Arts Staff / April 25, 2016
"This past Thursday evening, the Smart Museum of Art hosted an after-hours Garden Soirée."
 
Returning to Her Roots, Sarah Howe Finds Poetry in Pilgrimage
By May Huang / April 25, 2016
"Howe decided to travel to China, making what she called a 'pilgrimage' to see the country where her mother was born."
 
Uncommon Interview: In Conversation with Composer Stacy Garrop, A.M. ’95
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 25, 2016
"She was a woman who wasn’t afraid to look like a woman..."
Civic Orchestra of Chicago
Riccardo Muti Conductor
Maestro with a Mission: A (Very) Open Rehearsal with Riccardo Muti
By Rebecca Julie / April 25, 2016
"Muti, a veteran conductor known for his stern and stoic conducting style, showed off a more playful side at Sunday’s open rehearsal."
 
New Work Week Offerings Both Whimsical and Hard-Hitting
By Ryan Fleishman / April 25, 2016
"The video blog medium gives a sense of intimacy unobtainable in traditional theater."
New York Times film critic A.O. Scott defended himself against detractors on Twitter at the Seminary Co-Op last Saturday.
Criticism of Criticism: A Conversation with A.O. Scott
By Eleanor Hyun / April 21, 2016
"If we can learn to open our minds and engage critically, we will understand what it means for each of us to be a critic, dissolving the barrier between artist and viewer, critic and reader."
Odair, Clarice, and Sérgio Assad performed a multifaceted, diverse program Sunday at Mandel Hall.
Assads’ Classical Guitar Concert at Mandel a Family Affair
By Henry Bacha / April 21, 2016
"Clarice Assad’s idiosyncratic vocal interpretations bore unmistakable resemblance to Nascimento’s own singing style, marked by heavy reliance on the upper register and evocative, improvised vocalizations."
Soprano Rosa Feola joins the CSO in the final movement of Mahler’s Symphony No. 4.
Sleepy Storytelling at CSO Stunts Tchaikovsky, Mahler
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 21, 2016
". . . under the fingers of the CSO’s caramel strings, one wondered anew why Miranda and Ferdinand’s love theme isn’t heard as often as Romeo and Juliet’s."
Twin Catalan Readings Highlight Borders In Language, Culture
By Sarah Manhardt / April 21, 2016
". . . languages like Catalan provide an important understanding of the diversity of languages in the world."
Buckle up your Birkenstocks: Last week at the Riviera, Father John Misty transported concertgoers to hipster heaven.
The Ideal Father: John Misty at the Riviera
By Brooke White / April 21, 2016
"Father John Misty—with his slender physique, shoulder-length hair, and tasteful beard—resembles a modern-day hipster Jesus."
 
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / April 21, 2016
Arts, briefly.
Patrick Stewart (center) leads an antagonistic group of neo-Nazi thugs in director Jeremy Saulnier’s Green Room.
Green Room: Bleed, Puke, Repeat
By Walker King / April 21, 2016
"The green room is just as much a fortress as it is a cell..."
 
“GATSBY: The Musical” a Roaring Good Time
By May Huang / April 18, 2016
The set-up was simple, with a piano in the corner and seven music stands for the characters...
 
Arts Does: It Was Ninety-nine Cents!
By Arts Staff / April 18, 2016
Last weekend, your friendly neighborhood Arts editors took to Milwaukee Avenue in Wicker Park to sniff out the thriftiest places to shop.
Latino Film Festival Explores Oppression, Tragedy
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / April 18, 2016
Since the emergence of Latin-American film in the international sphere, macabre symbols (think Día de los Muertos imagery) have become more prominent.
 
Alex’s Food Journal: Dos Urban Cantina, Mexican Fusion Worth the Price
By Alex Ye / April 18, 2016
Headed by Frontera Grill alumni and couple Brian and Jennifer Enyart, Dos Urban Cantina takes the spotlight in an otherwise sparsely populated block on Armitage.
 
ACSA Showcases African, Caribbean Culture
By Maya Rodriguez / April 18, 2016
Guests enjoyed a variety of food options like oxtail, jerk chicken, jollof rice, and plantains as they mingled and listened to Stromae.
B.A. Performance Weaves Tail of Chinese Legend and Identity
By Alexia Bacigalupi / April 14, 2016
"Directing a performance of physical and emotional flexibility, Mao explored coming to terms with a complex personal identity and finding one’s voice in it."
Space and Science Fiction Collide in an I-House Far, Far Away
By Zeke Gillman / April 14, 2016
"Has science fiction increased space exploration and degraded the novelty of the fantastical science fiction universe by excessively promoting space exploration with its elaborate descriptions of space?"
MaroonTV Busts Into Hollywood
By Stacey Reimann / April 14, 2016
"Right off the bat, a student posed the million-dollar question: how do you get into the industry?"
 
Rockefeller Links Audience to Interfaith Art Exhibit
By Grace Hauck / April 14, 2016
"This Bridge exhibition is not so much about interfaith dialogue. It’s about something much deeper: interfaith friendships."
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / April 14, 2016
arts, briefly.
Iron Maiden fans rock out to the legendary metal band at the United Center. 
Hallowed Be Thy Name: Iron Maiden Slaughters the United Center
By Charles Khosla / April 14, 2016
"The crowd cheered for the opening chimes of “Hallowed Be Thy Name,” the buoyant riffing of “The Trooper,” and, of course, the immortal opening to “The Number of the Beast,” punctuated by Dickinson’s trademark blood-curdling scream."
 
Pilsen exhibition showcases the beauty of scientific research
By Caitlin Hubbard / April 11, 2016
"The personality of the researcher acted as a lens for interpreting scientific research, adding a very human aspect to a field that too often gives little opportunity for personal expression."
 
Alex’s Food Journal: Salonica, Hospitality on a Rainy Day
By Alex Ye / April 11, 2016
"Feel free to show up in sneakers and sweatpants, tuck in to Greek comfort food, slap $20 on the check, and continue with your day."
 
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / April 7, 2016
Arts, briefly.
Paris is Burning offers deeply personal portraits of New York City “ball-walkers,” who have found a home in the city’s vibrant drag subculture.
26 Years Later, Paris is Burning Still Rages On
By MJ Chen / April 7, 2016
“We witness a ritual in which imagination triumphs over circumstance.”
Theater[24]: A Curator’s Diary
By Elisabeth Del Toro / April 7, 2016
"There were running jokes about Ted Cruz being the Zodiac Killer, a very specific recurring sound cue of cows dying in a fire, and many, many references to ​Hamilton."
UChicago Alum’s Musical Charity Pareto Optimal
By May Huang / April 4, 2016
“As I try to navigate my way through the finance and music industries, I am so grateful for the problem solving skills I developed while at school,” says Leamy. “The University of Chicago taught me how to think.”
Art and Activism Intertwine in Thompson Talk
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / April 4, 2016
"Thompson brought to the podium a youthful energy and blithe buoyancy atypical of more traditional arts presenters."
 
Lights, Camera, SASA! Breaks Records
By Eleanor Hyun / April 4, 2016
"With 200 performers from different backgrounds and over 50 volunteers, this year’s SASA show was the biggest ever."
Batman (Ben Affleck) and Superman (Henry Cavill) face off in Zack Snyder’s mind-numbingly action-packed blockbuster, leaving Metropolis in ruins—again.
Critic v Batman v Superman
By Jonathan Hogeback / April 1, 2016
"The answer to danger seems to be more danger, just as the answer to critiques of a certain prequel’s action sequence seems to be more action."
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / April 1, 2016
Arts, briefly.
Graphic Novelist Daniel Clowes (LAB ’79) Comes Home
By Grace Hauck / March 31, 2016
"[Clowes] rejects all ready-made tropes, peeking instead into the woodwork of the quotidian..."
Rick (Christian Bale) is at the foreground of Malick’s latest landscape.
Knight of Cups a Heroic Feat of Cinema
By Charles Khosla / March 31, 2016
"It’s a testament to Malick’s direction, as well as cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki’s eye, that the film can bring out the splendor of bare parking lots and cluttered roads."
Sam Wilkerson of White Reaper crowdsurfs at The Sidewinder, a venue in Austin. 
No Rest at South By Southwest
By Miriam Benjamin / March 31, 2016
"SXSW proved to us how many great artists, experiences, and people are out there: you just have to be willing to try something new."
Diet Cig is Noah Bowman (drums) and Alex Luciano (vocals, guitar). 
Fuck Your Ivy League Sweater!
By Miriam Benjamin / March 31, 2016
"Frontwoman Alex Luciano’s lyrics and stage banter brought a careless femininity to Diet Cig’s pop-punk music—not normally a femme-friendly genre."
 
Bilingual Magazine Showcases Poesía, Arte, Fotos, y Más
By Grace Hauck / March 8, 2016
"Unlike past editions, this winter issue showcases a cleaner layout complete with full and two-page photo spreads, marking Mural’s transition from an anthology of academic papers and book reviews to a more artistic compilation of prose."
 
Lyric’s Roméo: A Note by Any Other Pitch Won’t Sound as Sweet
By MJ Chen / March 8, 2016
"Love duets fly thick and fast in Roméo et Juliette, from the sensual to the cemetery..."
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / March 8, 2016
Chicago’s South Side and the Prison + Neighborhood Arts Project The Prison and Neighborhood Arts Project (PNAP), a Chicago organization that provides art classes, workshops, and guest lectures to people at the Stateville Maximum Security Prison, is hosting a talk at the Seminary Co-Op. The panelists are Audrey Petty, Kai Parker, Lasana Kazembe, and Sarah Ross. March 7, 4:30 p.m., The Seminary Co-Op. Admission is free. Chamber Music Showcase Student chamber groups coached by Amy Briggs and members of the Spektral Quartet (UChicago Music Department Ensemble-In-Residence) will show off their work in an intimate recital. March 10, 7 p.m. Fulton...
MODA Successfully Struts Student Designs, Despite Coat Check Stumble
By Alden Herrera / March 4, 2016
dispatches from MODA's 2016 winter fashion show.
Vulnerability Takes Center Stage in CHRONICles
By Ayling Dominguez / March 4, 2016
"Small muscle spasms and painful leg clutching gave hints of what was to come... Something was wrong."
9 Book Recommendations for the Ninth-Week Free Time You Don’t Have
By May Huang / March 4, 2016
uchicago professors on the texts that changed their lives.
Anti-heroine Hester Swane (Grace Bolander) channels the murderous Medea in Irish playwright Marina Carr’s By the Bog of Cats (1998).
Medea in the Moors: UT Presents By the Bog of Cats
By Caitlin Hubbard / March 4, 2016
"The 11 actors had great chemistry... they interacted as a disjointed bramble of people who have only each other."
Victory Gardens is currently showing the world-premiere run of playwright Sarah Gubbins' dark comedy Cocked.
Lesbians, Guns, and a Dead Dog in a Handbag: Cocked at Victory Gardens
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / March 4, 2016
"Gubbins’s three-person drama demonstrates how easily fear and prejudice can lead to violent escalation, inexorably building to a Hitchcockian, Rear Window-esque climax."
The exterior of Graham Elliot Bistro in West Loop.
MasterChef Judge Serves Masterclass in Fine Dining at Graham Elliot Bistro
By Alexia Bacigalupi / March 4, 2016
"The West Loop Bistro... is a more low-key affair, pairing innovative takes on American classics in an accessible way."
Beach House (Alex Scally and Victoria Legrand) at Los Angeles’ Fonda Theater in December.
Thank Your Lucky Stars for Beach House
By Annie Cantara / March 4, 2016
"Despite its carefree name, Beach House doesn’t release upbeat, Top 40 songs you might blast on the radio... this duo is better known for its swirling textures and melancholic melodies."
The cover of Amy Kucharik's new album, Cunning Folk.
Kucharik’s Cunning Folk Transcends Genre
By May Huang / March 3, 2016
“My songwriting probably wouldn’t have happened if I hadn’t studied and written poetry..."
Uncommon Fund Project Draws Upon Asian-American Experience
By Grace Hauck / March 1, 2016
"And it’s frustrating because it’s so personal… You can’t ask people to understand, but you can at least let them see what your story is.”
Yo-Yo Ma enraptured CSO audiences with a spirited rendition of Shostakovich's Cello Concerto.
Salonen, Ma Convene at CSO in Eclectic Program
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / March 1, 2016
"Ma played the concerto with the extroverted passion that has become his near-trademark, though it proved to be something of a double-edged sword in his interpretation."
2016 MacArthur Grants Spotlight Chicago Arts Institutions
By Tamar Honig / March 1, 2016
"The Chicago-based MacArthur Foundation recently doled out more than $6 million..."
 
Reg Exhibit an Homage to Yiddish Culture in Chicago
By Eleanor Hyun / March 1, 2016
"The library’s collection is estimated to be around 6,000 volumes, according to Anne Knafl, a UChicago librarian specializing in Jewish studies, philosophy, and religion."
Comedian Felonious Munk, a Newport News native, has been making waves in national political circles through his series of YouTube commentaries. 
Second City’s Afro-Futurism Delivers Comedy With a Conscience
By May Huang / March 1, 2016
"Afro-Futurism seeks to confront, not to escape. What the show aims to bring to Second City is social commentary through sketch and stand-up comedy—mediums that deliver messages in an up-close, personal, and striking way."
 
Jukebox the Ghost’s Show a Shot of Espresso
By Anne Nazzaro / March 1, 2016
"After about half an hour of hearing the same four chords, the stage went dark, and Bernie Sanders’s version of 'This Land is Your Land' began to play over the speakers."
Author Maylis de Kerangel discussed the importance of time and language in writing last Thursday at the Sem Co-Op.
Sem Co-Op Gets to the Heart of de Kerangal’s Newest Novel
By Alexia Bacigalupi / February 26, 2016
“Manipulating language is manipulating time. Break a sentence and there is a hole of memory...”
A replica of Van Gogh’s bedroom, now available for rent on Airbnb for 0 a night.  
Van Gogh Under the Covers at the Art Institute of Chicago
By Caitlin Hubbard / February 26, 2016
"For a man who long struggled with depression in a world unable to understand him, Van Gogh never sounded happier than when he wrote about his new little yellow house."
From left to right: Seb Mueller, Max Becker, Joey Armstrong, and Cole Becker.
Uncommon Interview: Cole Becker of SWMRS
By Miriam Benjamin / February 26, 2016
"We’re all very privileged; we’re all heterosexual white dudes. We’re very aware of [that]. "
 
And the Oscar Goes to . . . Part 3: Predictions
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / February 26, 2016
The people have spoken: The MAROON's top Oscar picks by category.
With Great Collective Comes a Second Showcase
By Emma Preston / February 25, 2016
"In two hours of vulnerability, performers shared their beautifully crafted stories."
15-year-old Philip Glass (middle row, far left) in a Coulter House yearbook photo, circa 1952.
Philip Glass (A.B.’56) at UChicago: A Residency in Three Parts
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / February 23, 2016
"My impression is that there’s a special spirit to the University of Chicago . . . This was always a very powerful place to be."
Memories Find Home Through Creative Writing, Performance
By Alden Herrera / February 23, 2016
"Even if I’m not a professional writer . . . my story is worth telling as well."
Viewers encounter Wächtler’s central clothesline immediately upon entering the Renaissance Society.
Renaissance Society Exhibit Trumpets Works by Wächtler
By May Huang / February 23, 2016
"Secrets of a Trumpet suggests mystery, but so much in the exhibition conveys openness."
Teenage heroine Thomasin (Anya Taylor-Joy) stands before her cowering family.
Robert Eggers Makes Wicked Good Directorial Debut
By Walker King / February 23, 2016
"There’s a refreshing simplicity to the movie’s embrace of the fantastic . . ."
Harper Lee while visiting Monroeville, Alabama, her hometown and the setting which inspired Mockingbird's Maycomb.
Two Odes to Harper Lee, 1926–2016
By Arts Staff / February 23, 2016
Harper on Harper  Like almost everyone else, I read To Kill A Mockingbird in the course of my grade school education. Many of us wrote papers or crafted projects on this book, exploring its themes on Jim Crow, law, racism, judgment, and honesty. To Kill A Mockingbird became a favorite book of mine, much like it became the favorite of many modern readers. Scout, Jem, Boo, and Atticus became comrades in the course of the book each time I read it. Unlike most everyone else, however, I share two names and a similar heritage with Harper Lee. Her first name, Nelle, is...
Though Tom Araya (far left) and Kerry King (far right) are Slayer's only remaining original members, they can still hold their own alongside newcomers Gary Holt and Paul Bostaph.
Heavy metal greats slay at the Riveria
By Charles Khosla / February 22, 2016
"The fact is that there’s no such thing as a bad Slayer show . . ."
Alex’s Food Journal: The Promontory, Hyde Park’s Only Serious Dining Experience
By Alex Ye / February 19, 2016
"The chef-owners, Bruce Finkelman and Jared Wentworth, aim to create an experience with creative, playful interpretations on classic dishes."
First-year DOVA M.F.A. student Ben Nicholson is an artist for the Facebook age: His work analyzes how screens mediate—and sometimes dominate—our lives.
Student Artist Spotlight: First-Year M.F.A. Ben Nicholson
By Ayling Dominguez / February 19, 2016
"Aspiring artists should never give up hope because, unlike for other careers, there is no coherent economic model. The success of one artist does not necessarily mean the demise of another."
Food Trucks Serve Up Wheely Good Options
By Evangeline Reid / February 19, 2016
"The magic of the food trucks is that you never know what to expect."
You’re Not Crazy: South is Better Than Bartlett
By Walker King / February 19, 2016
"You are eventually faced with a stupefying conclusion: food at Cathey is just cooked better."
And the Oscar Goes To, Part II: Sitting Down with Fire Escape’s Kanisha Williams
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / February 19, 2016
"[The film industry is] an industry; it’s looking for shortcuts in how we talk about how we experience 'kinds of people' and also in making money."
Leon Golub’s dreamlike Reclining Youth (1959) is currently on display at the Smart Museum. 
Smart Exhibit Brings Chicago’s Postwar Monsters Home
By Dan Ackerman / February 18, 2016
"But for the same reason that this open-ended artistic process on display excites, it denies the viewer an experience of these artists’ works as polished final drafts . . ."
Musicians perform at the 56th Annual UChicago Folk Festival.
Outtakes from the 56th Annual UChicago Folk Festival
By Maroon File Photo / February 16, 2016
 
Opera’s Morbid Valentine: Puccini and Poulenc
By MJ Chen / February 15, 2016
"The backdrop looked like the ’60s as a Windows 95 screensaver—tie-dyed and distastefully neon; its animation synced neither with music nor with plot. My theory? The wallpaper killed old Buoso."
 
Poetry Foundation Opens Doors Downtown and Beyond
By May Huang / February 15, 2016
"The most recent workshop discussed similes: a group of 15 people sat around a table to analyze how different poems incorporate similes, ultimately incorporating them into their own poems."
CSO Principal Clarinetist Stephen Williamson comes to the fore with Mozart’s Clarinet Concerto, led by substitute conductor Gennady Rozhdestvensky (in back).
Rozhdestvensky Shines in Last-Minute CSO Shuffle
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / February 15, 2016
"Rakastava makes up for its occasional clunkiness with sparse, simple emotiveness. Perhaps that’s why it was the darling Sibelius just couldn’t kill."
 
Photographer Wil Sands Shoots Ukraine’s Frozen War in Mother Russia
By Henry Bacha / February 15, 2016
"Although some of Sands’ photographs of the Kiev demonstrations were stunningly visceral—like a picture of an older man lighting a Molotov cocktail to throw at state police, in front of a wall of flames—his most evocative portraits were those taken in war-torn eastern Ukraine.".
The UChicago Folklore Society jams out to celebrate its 50th anniversary in Ida Noyes.
Where Fun Goes to Jam: UChicago’s Chapter in American Folk
By May Huang / February 9, 2016
The 56th Annual UChicago Folk Festival will take place this coming weekend, February 12 and 13. Featuring live performances on both nights as well as free music and dance workshops at Ida Noyes Hall on Saturday, the festival invites the Hyde Park community not only to spectate but to participate in what has been a longstanding celebration of folk music on campus. The first UChicago Folk Festival was held in 1961, less than a decade after the formation of the Folklore Society, and was organized by musicologist Mike Fleischer (X ’63). A student trio known as “The Stony Island Boys”...
 
And the Oscar Goes to, Part I: The Depth of Animation
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / February 9, 2016
"So much about this film is simply unforgettable, including the most fascinating (and hopefully the last) hyper-realistic puppet sex scene I’ve ever watched."
 
UBallet’s Giselle Dances Through Heartbreak
By Alexia Bacigalupi / February 9, 2016
"The group is committed to its dual mandate of both performing ballet and introducing it to first-time audiences and dancers."
Fourth-year Peter Moller opened MAB’s Winter Comedy Show in Mandel Hall last Friday night.
MAB’s Third Winter Showcase Rolls Out Best Lineup to Date
By Andrew McVea / February 9, 2016
"This, combined with his rather raunchy humor—which ranged from topics like masturbating with coconut oil and calling your pets the n-word—made for a wonderfully dissonant, but ultimately hilarious, comedic atmosphere."
Shared Languages Workshop Braids Cultures Together
By Noah Christians / February 9, 2016
"The Shared Language class I took at the Incubator was about braiding: braiding as cultural practice, as communicative medium, and, for me, as a wacky bonus to having a man-bun."
A Weekend of Workshops Questions Art, Sanity, Fortune
By Samantha Hoffman / February 9, 2016
"I knew the production was a one-woman show; what I had not known was that a one-woman show could involve more than an hour of acting, dance, and movement that occasionally took the actress outside of the theater."
 
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / February 4, 2016
CSDS Valentine’s Day Dance Put some swing into your Valentine’s week! The Chicago Swing Dance Society (CSDS) is hosting a Valentine’s Day dance the weekend before. If you’ve never swing-danced before, the CSDS has you covered: there’s a beginner swing lesson before the dance begins. Music will be provided by the Petra Van Nuis Quartet, and drinks and snacks will be served. February 6, lesson at 7:30 p.m., dance from 8:30–11 p.m., Ida Noyes Library Lounge. Admission is $5 for students (including non-UChicago students) and $8 for non-students. CSO Student Night Students are invited to a special pre-concert reception before...
Visitors peruse the main floor of the Museum of Contemporary Photography’s latest exhibition, MoCP at 40, which debuted on January 25 and will run through April 10.
Migrating Through 40 Years of the MoCP
By Grace Hauck / February 4, 2016
"The back wall of the main gallery stands up to 12 prints tall with a wingspan of nine shots—a ceaseless treadmill for the extraocular muscles."
The West Loop’s Tete offered Longanisa sausage served with fried garlic rice.
This Year’s Restaurant Weak
By Nabila Lotayef / February 4, 2016
"Comparing that to the á la carte menu, it was easy to see I was better off ordering a couple of dishes from the regular menu and saving myself a lot of disappointment (and $10)."
Last Tuesday was the first T-shirt-making session for this year’s Clothesline Project, set to debut in the spring.
Coping With Sexual Violence Through Art
By Emma Preston / February 4, 2016
"I witnessed two creations identical in subject, yet opposite in methodology..."
This past Friday, Kitchen Sink partnered with campus RSO Active Minds to showcase 16 student artists.
Kitchen Sink’s First Student Exhibit Sprouts Up at Cornell Florist
By Eleanor Hyun / February 2, 2016
"A few of the students had even incorporated some plants into their works, seamlessly blending content and environment."
On Friday, January 29, the Riviera Theatre played host to both Elephant Revival and Josh Ritter, currently on his Sermon on the Rocks tour.
Ritter’s Riviera Show Feels Like “Homecoming”
By May Huang / February 2, 2016
"They played on a range of instruments, from the washboard to the djembe to the violin."
 
Over 1,000 humans, trolls, and elves descend on Ida
By Zoe Kaiser / February 1, 2016
"The event featured a masquerade ball, a date auction, a film screening, karaoke, a kimono dressing booth, and various cosplays—a form of costume play performance art."
Salonen will conduct two CSO concerts in March, including the world premiere of his cello concerto on March 9, 2017.
Editor’s Choice: Highlights Abound in Lyric Opera and CSO’s 2016–17 Seasons
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / February 1, 2016
"Hang on to your lorgnettes—we’re in for a whizz-bang season."
Tatiana Serjan’s Abigaille commands the Babylonians—and the Lyric Opera stage—in Verdi’s Nabucco.
Black-and-White Morality Colors Lyric Opera’s Nabucco
By Caitlin Hubbard / January 29, 2016
"The final costuming of these two women blurs the conventional understanding of good and evil, forcing the audience to reconsider the motivations and development of both characters."
The DuSable Museum is a Hyde Park mainstay and historical treasure trove which remains woefully underutilized by students.
DuSable Museum Preserves Chicago’s Tumultuous Racial Past
By David Millstein / January 29, 2016
“Chicago has long been an important site for pivotal moments in black history...”
 
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / January 29, 2016
arts, briefly.
Not your grandparents’ string quartet: the Spektral Quartet— Clara Lyon (violin), Russell Rolen (cello), Austin Wulliman (violin), and Doyle Armbrust (viola)—hope to tickle eardrums and funny bones alike with their new CD, Serious Business. 
Spektral’s “Minty-Fresh” Album is Anything but Serious
By Eleanor Hyun / January 29, 2016
"It’s infrequently the joke itself that gets the laugh . . . but the delivery."
 
Marsalis and JLCO Well-Calibrated, but Lack Character
By Eleanor Hyun / January 26, 2016
"A Lamborghini is beautiful and effortless in all things, but does it have as much personality as a 20-year-old Subaru that’s schlepped across the country, blanketed in bumper stickers acquired over its two decades?"
 
Art or Artifice? For Indie Pop Duo, It’s Up in the Cloudz
By Miriam Benjamin / January 26, 2016
"But when 150 people are splayed out in front of him, staring at him, waiting for him to confess—how could he possibly allow himself to be that vulnerable?"
 
Midwest’s Best Shine at ICCAs
By Evangeline Reid / January 26, 2016
"They also invited a surprise guest—Jae Seo, a young but very talented second-year vocal percussionist—to the stage for a solo set that brought the audience to its feet."
Hyde Park’s A10 is one of over 350 Chicago restaurants participating in this year’s restaurant week.
Spice Up Your Winter This Restaurant Week
By Caitlin Hubbard / January 22, 2016
"From German to Vietnamese to Caribbean, over 30 different cuisines will be represented across the city, from River North to Wicker Park to the West Loop."
Muse’s show at the United Center is essentially more of the same, plus a cyborg or two.
Muse’s New Album, Chicago Show Drones On
By Austin Brown / January 22, 2016
"It’s a band that wants to go big, go dumb, and disregard reality, all while creating a sonic fantasyland for the audience to live in."
There’s more to be reimagined: Packed is an appetizing work in progress.
The Verdict? I’ll Go Back to Packed
By Eleanor Hyun / January 22, 2016
"The sweet, nutty flavor of the squash, herbal sage, and balsamic caramel garnish came together in the form of a soft, squishy dumpling."
the Sketch
By Arts Staff / January 22, 2016
Arts, briefly.
Barry Shabaka Henley stars as Louis Armstrong in the Court’s Satchmo at the Waldorf.
Satchmo presents fresh take on American icon
By Henry Bacha / January 18, 2016
"Despite these noble intentions, some, such as Davis, could never look past the fact that, in a period of high racial discontent, Armstrong was less than willing to take a stand on civil rights."
Danielle de Niese (Roxane Coss) and John Irvin (Christopf) survive a hostage crisis in Lopez’s Bel Canto.
Bel Canto Promotes Unity, Despite Disjointed Performance
By Eleanor Hyun / January 18, 2016
"The opera exemplified music’s ability to heal conflict and foster human empathy, emphasizing that in times of enmity we must recall our shared humanity."
 
UChicago Maya’s Kaleidoscope Dazzles in Theater West
By Alexia Bacigalupi / January 18, 2016
"The mood changed immediately: the music became tense, the motions sharp and writhing, the costumes fitted and metallic."
New protagonists, old tricks: Rey and Finn (played by newcomers Daisy Ridley and John Boyega) dash breathlessly into the spotlight.
Seven Takes On Episode VII: The Force Awakens, Discussed
By Arts Staff / January 15, 2016
My dad saw A New Hope in theaters in 1977 and he thought it was “okay.” Thirty-eight years later, it’s no longer possible to have a neutral opinion about a Star Wars episode: our reviewers either thought The Force Awakens wasn’t fit to wipe George Lucas’s bottom or that it was the best thing to happen to the franchise since the blissful lack of Jar-Jar Binks in Revenge of the Sith. It’s easy to see the downsides of The Force Awakens (same plot, bigger Death Star), but even its most stalwart haters saw potential. The Force Awakens clearly updated old...
A 1976 promo shot of Bowie from The Man Who Fell to Earth.
The Prettiest Star: David Bowie Remembered
By Ariella Carmell / January 15, 2016
"I remembered what I loved about him: his ethereality, the sense that if you tried to grab him you would find he was impalpable."
Huddled civilians-turned-exiliados during the Spanish Civil War, which raged across Spain in the late 1930s.
The “Most Photogenic War”: The Spanish Civil War and the Aesthetics of Brutality
By Kenneth Talbott La Vega / January 15, 2016
"I was revolted by how, somewhere between the active manifestation of the affliction and the production of its image, the element of humanity is lost . . ."
A panel from Warhol’s series Big Electric Chair, which features a photograph of an empty execution chamber at a New York penitentiary.
Art Institute Electrifies with New Contemporary
By Eleanor Hyun / January 15, 2016
“Art is not a single, monolithic narrative but rather a series of shifts and conversations.”
the Sketch
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / January 15, 2016
Arts, briefly.
Cellist Johannes Moser last appeared with the CSO in 2005, making his U.S. debut with the orchestra.
Last week at the CSO: a hero’s life, and a life remembered
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / January 11, 2016
"Moser’s interpretation brought together everything one could hope for in a performance of this work: finessed melodic lines, adroit finger work, arresting yet unpretentious virtuosity, and a dash of cheeky wit."
This is the second piece in Kennedy's four-part series narrating the poem “¿Revolutionary?.”
B(lack)ness and Latini(dad) traverses identites, media
By Grace Hauck / January 11, 2016
"He tells the story of the first time he took an in-school survey. It was about adolescent drug use. It asked him to indicate name, age, and race (check one)."
Twisted White Snow at Renaissance ain’t no Smile and a Song
January 11, 2016
"He depicts this stereotypically pure character in a dark, violent, and mature way, which twists our conception of the innocence embodied by childhood stories."
John Ruth (Kurt Russell) and Major Warren (Samuel L. Jackson) share a tense moment in the snow.
Hateful Eight is Paradise City for fans of 70mm
By Charles Khosla / January 8, 2016
"Filmed in 65 mm film using the same lens that captured the mighty chariot sequence in Ben Hur, The Hateful Eight is a gorgeous theatrical experience."
The Band's All Here: original lineup Richard Manuel, Garth Hudson, Levon Helm, Robbie Robertson, and Rick Danko sit together, 1969.
Live from Mandel Hall, 33 years later
By Donald C. Dowling, Jr. / January 8, 2016
New Album Looks Back at the UChicago Moment in the History of a Legendary Rock Band
together PANGEA's William Keegan, Erik Jimenez, Danny Bengston, and Roland Casio (not pictured) pair inhibition-freeing punk with an unassuming stage presence. 
PANGEA shifts tectonics at Subterranean
By Miriam Benjamin / January 8, 2016
"I came back having spent an hour jumping up, forwards, backwards, and sideways to songs that I really like. It was mindless fun, to be sure, but the show reminded me that there’s virtue in mindless fun."
Danger, desperation and desire: a fresh take on Macbeth
By Alexia Bacigalupi / January 8, 2016
"Blunt and hypnotic, Kurzel’s Macbeth delivers a one-two punch to the solar plexus."
Disappointing leads, budget sets undercut an otherwise merry Widow
By MJ Chen / December 4, 2015
"I remember the razzle-dazzle, bygone splendor, and synergy of cast and costumes of that production —— a spectacle of the haut-bourgeois. But I will not remember this production."
Soul from the basement
By Grace Hauck / December 1, 2015
The Underground Collective presents an exposé of pain, healing, and apple cider
Cellist Yo-Yo Ma and artist Theaster Gates, in a conversation moderated by Logan Center for the Arts Executive Director Bill Michel.
CSO and UChicago plan daylong Bach party on South Side
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / November 30, 2015
“'There’s this [misconception] that different kinds of music need to live in different kinds of places—that classical music is white music and doesn’t have a place in black neighborhoods...'”
One man’s trash is a musical community’s treasure
By Eleanor Hyun / November 30, 2015
“'Classically trained musicians think about perfection in everything, but, at the end, the real meaning of music is the effort you put behind it.'”
Soul from the basement
By Grace Hauck / November 30, 2015
The Underground Collective presents an exposé of pain, healing, and apple cider
 
Photo Essay: A Night of Openings
By Grace Hauck / November 23, 2015
MFA students opened up their Logan studios Friday night while Midway Studios hosted an exhibition celebration next door.
 
Cloud Nothings fill largely empty MAB show with punk rock energy
By Andrew McVea / November 23, 2015
"While attendance was certainly impacted by the poor weather that evening, I’ve seen bigger crowds for bands at Bar Night."
John Lydon and Public Image Ltd are still What the World Needs Now…
By Miriam Benjamin / November 23, 2015
"PiL proved that even the most off-the-wall, meticulously textured genius gets a little ho-hum if you do it for long enough..."
If it ain’t Baroque, fix it
By Michael Stubna / November 23, 2015
"Exchanging his baton for a viola, Zukerman led Telemann’s four-movement Viola Concerto in G major in a way that can only be described as quintessentially Baroque."
PanAsian comedy features alumna
By Austin Lai / November 23, 2015
"I spent 20 minutes training the host how to say my name and then finally, the host says: ‘ladies and gentlemen, give it up for Petit Sriracha!'"
After surviving UChicago, Spencer Bledsoe (A.B. ’14) takes on new challenge
By James Koehne / November 20, 2015
Just over two years ago, Spencer Bledsoe (A.B. ’14) traded the city life of Hyde Park for the shores of the Philippines as he competed on the 28th season of hit reality show Survivor, Survivor: Cagayan. Although host Jeff Probst predicted that Bledsoe had a “zero percent chance” at winning the game and its $1 million grand prize, Bledsoe exceeded expectations, finishing in fourth place by lasting 37 days on the island, surviving 11 tribal councils, winning two immunity challenges, and showing his strategic prowess along the way. An instant fan favorite, Bledsoe was elected by audiences as one of...
 
The emperor’s new words: Fresh Agamemnon at Court Theatre
By Caitlin Hubbard / November 20, 2015
The Court Theatre, just steps away from the center of campus, is hearkening to its roots this fall with Aeschylus’s Agamemnon. The second of three Greek tragedies that tell of the strife and sorrow of the House of Atreus, Agamemnon is the story of the homecoming of the great Mycenaean king Agamemnon (Mark L. Montgomery) after his victory in the Trojan War. His cunning wife, Clytemnestra (Sandra Marquez), has spent his 10-year absence lusting for revenge for the sacrifice of their daughter to the gods. The play is a new translation designed specifically for the production by University of Chicago...
 
Greetings from yesteryear: Exhibit showcases postcards from University’s history
By May Huang / November 20, 2015
Among the numerous events and performances across campus celebrating the University’s 125th anniversary, Greetings from the Midway: A Postcard History of the University of Chicago stands out on the second floor of the Logan Center as a humble commemoration of our school’s history. Greetings from the Midway stays true to Logan’s tradition of giving art history students the chance to organize its exhibits. Ph.D. student Carl Fuldner curated the exhibit’s selection of over 300 postcards while fourth-year Cooper Zajac helped design its layout. This exhibit captures not only the history of the University but also that of the surrounding neighborhood....
Macedonian director ties together disparate tales in Mothers triptych
By May Huang / November 17, 2015
"In a circular way, the responses to the film further invite us to consider the nature of truth: the opinions we frame when interpreting the film provoke our curiosity as much as the events of the film do."
Israel Philharmonic concert a balm to frayed hearts and minds
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / November 17, 2015
"We could not blithely listen to music and pretend that nothing had happened. Instead of the music acting as a diversion from the real world, the IPO brought those emotions into the concert—our sorrow, our fear, our anger, and, ultimately, our resilience.".
University celebrates 125 years of student artists with Logan exhibition
By Rebecca Julie / November 17, 2015
"...the show also includes a comprehensive timeline of the arts at UChicago, which includes such events as the creation of Doc Films and the first Summer Breeze concert."
SASA’s Diwali shines a festive light before the dark, impending winter
By Grace Hauck / November 17, 2015
“The rowdy audience didn't stay seated for long. A dance party soon erupted...”
Writer, actress and producer Issa Rae at a discussion with students.
Issa Rae, an Awkward Black Girl turned YouTube phenomenon
By Ellen Rodnianski / November 12, 2015
“I’m awkward and black. Someone once told me those were the two worst things anyone can be. That someone was right.” –Misadventures of Awkward Black Girl Issa Rae’s Misadventures of Awkward Black Girl propelled her into YouTube stardom. Her character, J, was a sharp departure from the usual roles that actors of color are relegated to in popular film and television. Rae writes with an acute awareness of the often-overlooked, multifaceted experience of what it’s like to be black, female, and, in this case, awkward. It is no surprise, then, that her visit to the University of Chicago drew a...
Daniel Craig as James Bond in the latest installment of the Bond franchise
Not shaken and hardly stirred: a Spectre of the original series
By Alexia Bacigalupi / November 12, 2015
It begins as they all do: throngs of people in the streets of an exotic city. Dressed in somber black suits and frilly white dresses, they flood the wide boulevards of Mexico City. Their faces are obscured under mocking skeleton masks and intricately painted sugar skull designs, traditional costumes of Day of the Dead celebrations. Despite the dizzying atmosphere—people spilling out of buildings and alleyways to join the giant, writhing parade—the scene has an oddly hushed quality to it. The old colonial buildings of Mexico City’s central square are bathed in a dusty sepia haze, and beyond the rhythmic thump...
the Sketch: arts, briefly
By Ellen Rodnianski / November 12, 2015
As part of the 20th Anniversary Series at the Center for the Study of Gender and Sexuality, there will be a screening of the documentary Regarding Susan Sontag, followed by a discussion with Associate Professor Deborah L. Nelson of the English department. The documentary follows the life of the provocative thinker, University of Chicago alum, and passionate feminist.    November 18, Regenstein Library 122, Tickets are free. This weekend the Hyde Park community is coming together to sell, buy, trade, and drink hot cider at the inaugural 57th Street Community Flea Market. Items on sale will vary from antiques to...
 
Hippo Campus nearly reaches heights of their “heavy pop” inspirations
By Miriam Benjamin / November 9, 2015
"When Hippo Campus finally cut loose from Verse Chorus Verse Chorus Bridge Verse Chorus, they became what I’d hoped they’d be."
Interview with Bradley Smoak, up-and-coming singer in Lyric’s Wozzeck
By MJ Chen / November 9, 2015
"I think very few people these days actually go to the theatre to be moved..."
SOFA, nation’s largest sculpture and design fair, floods Navy Pier
By Grace Hauck / November 9, 2015
"Amidst all the shimmer and shine, however, I was particularly entranced by the simple and dynamic crystalline form of artist Peter Mandl..."
 
Hari Kondabolu hosts evening of tasteful comedy, eating the rich
By Evangeline Reid / November 9, 2015
"But the best comedians can take the mundane and reveal its absurdity."
the Sketch
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / November 5, 2015
The South Asian Students Association (SASA) brings comedian Hari Kondabolu to Mandel Hall. Hailed by The New York Times as “one of the most exciting political comics in stand-up today,” Brooklyn-based Kondabolu has performed stand-up on The Late Show with David Letterman, Conan, and Jimmy Kimmel Live. The show starts at 7:30 p.m., but festivities begin outside Mandel Hall at 6:30 p.m., including an interactive photo booth and Indian food. Tonight, doors open at 7 p.m., Mandel Hall, free with UCID. Chicago Artists Month (October 1–November 15) continues with a performance of “expanded cinema” presented by Full Spectrum Features and...
Alongside the Chicago Sinfonietta, conductor Andrés Franco bows for a receptive audience in Orchestra Hall. 
Plenty to celebrate in Chicago Sinfonietta’s Día de los Muertos concert
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / November 5, 2015
"The buttoned-down, predominantly white mass that so often frequents Symphony Center refracted into a rainbow of faces—young, old, black, white, brown, sneakered, bow-tied, and everyone in between."
 
Outside that system defies boundaries of university, UCPD
By Alexandra Blankenhorn / November 3, 2015
"She is most interested in observing seemingly banal spaces as a way to understand the definitions of space and place."
It’s a bird! It’s a plane! No, it’s a feminist spin on superhero clichés!
By Andrew McVea / November 3, 2015
"The setup feels almost like The Devil Wears Prada, but with super-strength."
Quantum Café in Eckhardt Center gains momentum on opening day
By Grace Hauck / November 3, 2015
"These stunning images—vibrant snapshots of molecular structures, arctic laboratories, cosmological bodies, and more—filter through every few minutes, cultivating an air of awe, adventure, and potential."
This section of the 67th Street mural is among many empowering symbols on the mural, encouraging community members to speak up and make their voices heard.
Community seeks to paint Woodlawn in a new light with 67th Street mural
By Grace Hauck / October 29, 2015
A train of honking cars passes under the viaduct at 67th and Dorchester. Some drivers slow down. Some holler out of their windows. Some park, get out, and pick up a paintbrush. This past weekend, the residents of Woodlawn began work on a public beautification project—a community mural entitled “Woodlawn Works” that will adorn the three walls of the railroad underpasses on 66th and 67th streets. This celebration of local labor history, now two years in the making, is a collaborative effort between the Woodlawn Residents Association and the Chicago Public Art Group. “It’s an artistic counter-argument to the Chiraq...
Acoustics, queer identity collide in Sexing Sound
By May Huang / October 29, 2015
A three-day citywide event, Sexing Sound: Gender Sound Music, was an innovative collaboration between the Goethe-Institut, the University of Chicago, the School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC), Northwestern University, and Experimental Sound Studio (ESS), a non-profit organization dedicated to the production and exhibition of sound as a cultural medium. True to ESS’ goal to promote the “creative dimensions” of sound, Sexing Sound explored the intersectionality between gender and sound art in creative yet accessible ways.  “[An event like this] has yet to be produced in the U.S.,” said ESS audio artist and executive director Lou Mallozzi at the event launch last Thursday....
the Sketch: arts, boo-riefly
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / October 29, 2015
The 10th Annual Latino Music Festival continues throughout the month of November. The festivities include a Día de los Muertos concert presented by the Chicago Sinfonietta. True to the spirit of this Latin American holiday, the program transcends grief to end on a celebratory, life-affirming note, progressing from the solemnity of Samuel Barber’s Adagio for Strings to José Pablo Moncayo’s rollicking Huapango. Also on the program are works by Fauré and Wagner and the world premiere of Ofrendas, composed by the festival’s co-director, Elbio Barilari. Monday, November 2 at 7:30 p.m. Symphony Center, 220 S. Michigan Ave. $10 student rush...
 
UT’s Krapp’s Last Tape explores one man and his past recordings
By Caitlin Hubbard / October 26, 2015
"We are not given a story of a long happy life coming to a close too soon."
 
Uncommon Interview: Famous violinist Joshua Bell prepares to take the podium
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / October 26, 2015
“I’ve played with some jazz musicians…. Even in classical music, you can capture a bit of that.”
Hinds’s show at Lincoln Hall was a punk, drunk slam dunk
By Miriam Benjamin / October 26, 2015
“Viva Hinds, viva amateurism, and fuck virtuosity.”
The Middle Distance will premiere at the Chicago International Film Festival on October 23. 
Uncommon Interview: Filmmaker Patrick Thomas Underwood, A.B.’03
By Robert Sorrell / October 22, 2015
Patrick Thomas Underwood (A.B. ’03) graduated from UChicago with a degree in Cinema and Media studies, studied opera in Venice for a year after graduation, and received an M.F.A from the American Film Institute in Los Angeles in 2008. In 2009, he moved back to Chicago and shortly thereafter began work on The Middle Distance, a character drama set in the depths of the Michigan winter. The film was shot in New Buffalo and Three Oaks, Michigan during the polar vortex of 2014. Underwood explained that although “you can’t photograph cold… you can make a movie feel cold,” and that...
Hubbard Street dancers perform in the American premiere of Forsythe's N.N.N.N.
Long-awaited Forsythe front and center at Hubbard Street Dance Season 38 opener
By Evangeline Reid / October 22, 2015
Hubbard Street Dance opened their last season with a show that mesmerized and surprised audiences. This fall, they did it again. Hubbard Street has recently taken to staging entire series based on the work of only one choreographer, an uncommon and somewhat risky move even for such a well-established company. Season 38 opened this past weekend at the Harris Theater with a fall series entirely choreographed by William Forsythe. The conclusion of season 37 last June featured three pieces by Hubbard Street’s resident choreographer Alejandro Cerrudo. The result was a strong but chronically repetitive show, with surprises few and far...
Tricks and treats in store at Music Box Theater horror movie marathon
By Dan Ackerman / October 22, 2015
Few theaters in Chicago are better equipped to explore the full range of horror—a genre characterized by a constant negotiation between classic and kitsch—than the Music Box, a space practically carved into that intersection. So it’s only fitting that this weekend, the historic Music Box Theatre will screen a dozen horror movies in 35mm and digital projection back-to-back for its annual Music Box of Horrors 24-hour movie marathon. In addition to screening films that run the gamut in obscurity from it-would-be-generous-to-call-this-“cult” to knowing-this-movie-alone-makes-you-a-horror-buff, the Music Box will host giveaways and contests between films. Expect vendors with limited edition merchandise, food...
 
Joshua Redman and the Bad Plus are actually good
By Emma Broder / October 19, 2015
"The trio—an ensemble that has released recordings ranging from Igor Stravinksy’s Rite of Spring to covers of Neil Young and Ornette Coleman—has an almost inhuman capacity for creativity."
 
CSO contends with On the Waterfront score this Friday
By Emma Broder / October 19, 2015
“Kaufman is a veteran film score conductor...”
Robert De Niro’s Intern isn’t just an 18-year-old coffee-boy
By Olivia Rosenzweig / October 19, 2015
"Most of it is centered around the “hilarity” of a 70-year-old being able to still have a relationship with a woman or the various hijinks the interns get into while trying to help Ostin."
 
Full Disclosure, DJ set at Navy Pier refused to Settle for the expected
By Alexia Bacigalupi / October 19, 2015
“...the beats were bulkier, and there was more urgency and edge...”
 
Krista Franklin’s Like Water exhibit explores female ability to shapeshift
By Peyton Alie / October 15, 2015
"I wanted to create a contemporary shape shifter character, another young black woman, and look at how she would move through the world when she figured out that she could change herself to anything from an animal to another person,” Franklin said.
Rocking and raging at Riot Fest; highs and lows of a musical weekend
By Miriam Benjamin / October 15, 2015
Only at Riot Fest can I see a bunch of my favorite bands with a bunch of people who love them as much as I do, and there’s no better feeling than that.
 
What to expect from the 51st Chicago International Film Festival
By Robert Sorrell / October 15, 2015
...the best way to get the most out of the fest is to go for the films and directors you’ve never heard of.
 
Smart’s To See in Black and White offers complement to Expressionism
By Kaitlyn Akin / October 12, 2015
"Painters in the Expressionist movement focused on articulating the essence of reality, while the photographers of the era were more interested in capturing its particularities."
 
Hidden treasure in Chinatown satisfies late-night hankerings for cheap
By Isaac Stein / October 12, 2015
"MSG can be tasty, particularly at 4 a.m., but Seven Treasures is 'genuinely good,' in the sense that it will not kill you when consumed three times per week."
 
Brahms-centric program leaves bland aftertaste
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / October 12, 2015
"Brahmsian motifs materialize from Glanert's sonic cloud and then retreat ..."
New film The Martian is a surprisingly human tale
By Emma Broder / October 8, 2015
"The Martian differs from the survivor trope by dealing with the ideas of human loneliness and human support."
An Indie Rock Nerd’s Experience at an EDM Festival
By Miriam Benjamin / October 8, 2015
"Because the crowd only has a single wish—to dance..."
 
Prominent New Wave film director Agnès Varda in residence
By Walker King / October 8, 2015
Varda is a prominent filmmaker, visual artist, photography and documentarian
 
Smart Museum curator Richard Born gives life to 100 years of Expressionist art
By Grace Hauck / October 5, 2015
“His world, on the eve of a great and terrible war, is dreamlike.”
Renaissance Society explores sirens, darkness, and non-violence in new exhibition
By Andrew McVea / October 5, 2015
"My first thought seeing it was the Spanish word for 'to be' but after reading the program notes I realized it is more likely just an abbreviation of the title."
 
American Idiot interpretation will be the time of your life
By Ellen Rodnianski / October 5, 2015
“White...embodied the enticement of heroin itself”
 
Maroon exclusive: In conversation with Riccardo Muti
By MJ Chen, Hannah Edgar, and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / October 1, 2015
“The next time you go to a concert and see a conductor who moves more than is necessary... you have to boo”
 
Lyric’s Figaro marries misguided direction with poor taste
By MJ Chen / October 1, 2015
"Artless, witless, and soulless as the production was, its music provided the evening’s single success."
 
Community talent showcased at the annual Hyde Park Jazz Festival
By Emma Broder / October 1, 2015
...the Hyde Park Jazz Fest focuses less on attracting “name-brand” artists and focuses more on lesser-known, but equally masterful artists raised and trained in Chicago, some even from Hyde Park itself.
 
Chicago Artist Roger Brown Explodes in Chelsea
By Grace Hauck / September 21, 2015
“What’s interesting about this body of work,” Deluca said, “is that a lot of the underlying issues are very similar to today’s—the environment, issues of finance and money, inequity and scandals. His work feels very contemporary and very fresh.”
Kanye, FKA twigs rock FYF Fest even without Frank Ocean
By Miriam Benjamin / September 13, 2015
"I love Frank Ocean, but if missing FYF makes his upcoming album better, I won’t hold it against him."
Spend Labor Day weekend dancing with Chicago’s final summer festival
By Miriam Benjamin / September 1, 2015
North Coast Music Festival, which runs from September 4–6 in Chicago’s Union Park, is billed with the tagline “Summer’s Last Stand.” In other words: School is around the corner, here’s a festival with enough EDM that you won’t remember your own birthday, let alone school, come Monday morning. For all of its six-year history, NCMF has been a raver’s paradise—past headliners include Bassnectar, David Guetta, Moby, and Afrojack, and 2015’s lineup features Knife Party, Steve Aoki, The Glitch Mob, and RAC. But electronic dance music alone does not a sell-out festival make. Each year, the bookers carefully mobilize a counter-force...
Alison Dalton at her solo recital this summer, accompanied by Eugenia Cheng, a math lecturer at the University of Chicago.
Chicago Symphony Orchestra violinist engineers triumphant comeback
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / August 31, 2015
As with all musicians in the Chicago Symphony Orchestra (CSO), violinist Alison Dalton is no stranger to high-stakes solo performances. The daughter of graduates of the Eastman School of Music, she made her debut playing Camille Saint-Saëns’ Havanaise with the Utah Symphony at only 13 years old. Decades later, on July 30 of this year, Dalton made a quieter, but no less momentous debut in the parlor of a Lincoln Park home. That evening she gave her first solo recital since a rapid decline in her eyesight forced her to take a 20-month leave from the CSO. “People in my...
Music festival is FYFty Shades of Great music
By Miriam Benjamin / August 7, 2015
This year's FYF Fest in Los Angeles will include performances by Frank Ocean, FKA twigs, Bloc Party and Savages
Morrissey stays relevant with timely opinions and timeless talent
By Miriam Benjamin / August 4, 2015
Throughout his long career, Morrissey has never been one to hold back his opinions. In his 2004 song “The World is Full of Crashing Bores,” Morrissey slams musicians who fail to adequately utilize their platform: “Lock-jawed pop stars/ Thicker than pig shit/ Nothing to convey/ So scared to show intelligence/ It might smear their lovely career.” As a pop star, Morrissey believes it is his responsibility to address social issues, and he did so earnestly and relentlessly at his performance at the Lyric Opera of Chicago on July 9. Morrissey came to fame in the mid-’80s as the lead singer...
Pitchfork closes its first decade and stays in tune
By Miriam Benjamin / August 4, 2015
Pitchfork is the kind of music festival that music lovers and snobs adore: cheap tickets, smaller crowds, and a diverse lineup. Although there wasn’t too much diversity in the audience—at one point my friend commented that she was “looking at three variations of the same hipster dude”—the artists at Chicago’s Pitchfork Music Festival (July 17-19) represented all of the biggest music genres and many levels of fame. Feel-good indie rock? Check. Riot grrrl punk? Check. Electronica, dance-pop, hip-hop? Check, check, check. I was only at Pitchfork on Saturday and Sunday, but I didn’t feel like I got anything less than...
 
Beyond the Score’s “Ravel: a Portrait” a work of art
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / June 10, 2015
The minds behind Beyond the Score seem to be getting into the swing of things. Ten years have passed since the premiere of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s educational multimedia series, which has since seen productions both good and, frankly, goofy.   The driving concept is a brilliant one: Through dynamic projections and narration, Beyond the Score contextualizes standard repertory pieces, drawing from composers’ private correspondences and other primary sources while the orchestra plays musical excerpts. However, installments in previous seasons were sometimes melodramatic and directionless, feeling less like a cogent presentation and more like a flurry of quotes, declaimed by...
 
Plants for poems: arts collective brings project to campus
By Evangeline Reid / June 2, 2015
Pilsen-based arts collective called Cream Co. brought a unique exhibit to the Logan Center’s patio
 
Senior looks back on years with Voices in Your Head
By Evangeline Reid / June 2, 2015
The group took second in the world among collegiate a cappella teams this spring
Lake Street Dive’s talent underappreciated at Thalia Hall gig
By Lily Gordon / June 2, 2015
"It didn’t feel like a sold-out show; it wasn’t rowdy."
Jamie xx’s In Colour toes the line between celebration and melancholy
By Andrew Yang / June 2, 2015
"The tension between joy and sadness is what makes the music so compelling, giving its happier moments a bittersweet edge and its more reflective moments a sweeping, grandiose sense of tragedy."
English Graffiti draws upon its predecessors, for better and for worse
By Miriam Benjamin / May 29, 2015
The point of English Graffiti was to take a risk
 
UBallet presents: Pirates of the Mediterranean
By Grace Hauck / May 29, 2015
The fun, exotic, swashbuckling drama of this work starkly contrasts with the disturbing presence of human trafficking embedded within the plotline.
UT brings comedy center stage
By Grace Hauck / May 21, 2015
The characters resort to lies, rumors, and outrageously ridiculous cover-up stories
Raise a glass (of Coke) to Mad Men
By Adam Thorp and Editor-in-Chief (’18–’19) / May 21, 2015
Don Draper’s peace is an ad he pitches to himself, and then to the rest of the world.
Joanna Gruesome’s short and sweet Peanut Butter sticks
By Miriam Benjamin / May 21, 2015
The art of the short song is underappreciated
Organization of Black Students presents: Blackout
By Emma Broder / May 21, 2015
Blackout is OBS's most ambitious cultural show to date
 
Clothesline Project shares stories of assault survivors
By Andrew McVea / May 18, 2015
This Sunday marked the beginning of this year’s Sexual Assault Awreness Week (SAAW) sponsored by Student Government, the Campus Dialogue Fund, the Office of LGBTQ Life and the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs (OMSA). In Hutchinson Courtyard the UChicago Clothesline Project has put in an installation of t-shirts designed by sexual assault survivors bringing an issue that is not normally talked about out into the open. Other events this week include a keynote address on Title IX today, a screening of the movie Half the Sky tomorrow, an open house with Associate Dean of Students Jeremy Inabinet on Thursday and...
Middle East meets Midwest in new Oriental Institute mini exhibit
By Darren Wan / May 18, 2015
"The fascination with Oriental exoticism that prevailed in the late 19th century was reflected in the World’s Fair..."
All they do is win: T-Pain, Azealia Banks and Madeon rock Hutchinson Courtyard
By Andrew McVea / May 18, 2015
"Was it a bit overly theatrical? Maybe. Did it work? Undoubtedly."
Stories of South Side youth brought into focus through art installation
By Isaac Stein / May 18, 2015
“I don’t think that media [reports] are factually wrong. But they only display the negative, which is not an attempt to show what life here is actually like."
 
He’s Mad (Max) as hell and he won’t take it anymore
By James Mackenzie / May 18, 2015
Priscilla ain't the queen of this Australian desert, but Miller proves he's 2015's action director king.
 
Violinist from renowned Emerson String Quartet reflects on journeys old and new
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 14, 2015
Counting nine Grammys, three Gramophone Awards, and an Avery Fisher prize among its achievements, the Emerson String Quartet is widely regarded as a giant among American string quartets. For the bulk of its illustrious career, the Quartet’s personnel remained remarkably unchanged, consisting of Eugene Drucker and Philip Setzer (violins), Lawrence Dutton (viola), and David Finckel (cello). However, their most recent album, Journeys, marked Finckel’s departure from the quartet after a distinguished 34-year career, being succeeded in 2013 by cellist Paul Watkins. In anticipation of the Quartet’s upcoming performance at Chicago’s Harris Theater on May 20, the Maroon spoke with violinist...
Master’s candidates showcase thesis work in offbeat exhibition
By Grace Hauck / May 14, 2015
“Phallic symbols on the wall that are flaccid and portraits of old guys with a bear—it’s weird right?” Camille Morgan, Curatorial Coordinator of Logan Center Exhibitions, said with a laugh in response to the art of MFA student Zachary Harvey. Go Away, Ghost Ship!, the Logan Center’s most recent exhibit (closing today), was, indeed, a bit strange. This first of two student-curated MFA Thesis Exhibitions of 2015 opened at the end of April as a collaboration between Logan Center Exhibitions and the Department of Visual Arts. It showcased the works of four graduating artists: Zachary Harvey, Autumn Elizabeth Clark, Sara...
Shadows of Shyamalan can be found in Fox’s new Wayward Pines
By James Mackenzie / May 14, 2015
The extent to which Shyamalan is directly involved in this show is hard to discern.
 
Scav inspires student creativity and matrimony
By Andrew McVea / May 11, 2015
This past weekend was the annual UChicago Scav Hunt—a tradition that began in 1987. This year’s list included the real life wedding of judge Christian Kammerer and former participant Emily Pelka.  Each Scav team completed a number of items related to the wedding, such as creating custom lapel pins for the groom and baking a Eurovision cake to be judged by the couple. Other notable items from this year included a trailer for the movie Shark NATO, photos of the team captains using a Game Boy camera and printer, a life-size Polly Pocket house, giant Christmas pyramids (Maclean house had...
CSO fest is the crème de la crème
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 11, 2015
"Satie’s music is as singular as his personality: He was a Dr. Seuss of sounds..."
 
808s and Heartbreak: Kanye flees Logan in FourFiveSeconds
By Andrew McVea / May 11, 2015
Students miss out on surprise Kanye performance at Logan.
FOTA Springfest is in the air
By Alice Xiao / May 11, 2015
"Artwork was installed in locations like the Reg, Reynolds Club, student Cafes, the Logan Center, and Harper Memorial Library."
Renaissance Society invites participants’ interaction
By Andrew McVea / May 11, 2015
"It felt cavernous—wide-open and spread out—and yet every object was within just a few steps from the other."
 
FOTA’s Springfest celebrates student art in bloom
By Evangeline Reid / May 8, 2015
Festival of the Arts’s annual Springfest is coming to a close. The  RSO’s big week featured the work of student artists, both providing the funding and creating the space for their creativity to be showcased. The week opened with a chic launch party at Reynolds Club, with RSO performances, a fashion show, and the presentation of some of the new works, and concluded with a performance from Ira Glasshole, a rapping jazz quintet. Events included a studio open house in Logan with Valeria Contreras’s comic books and a pop-up bakery by Rachel Sally, a comedy night with Occam’s Razor and...
Art imitates life science in the installation pieces of David Brooks
By Darren Wan / May 8, 2015
“This subverts the stasis of a monumental sculpture, since here was something that’s meant to change over time.”
Django Django is unreined, suffers from Second Album Syndrome
By Miriam Benjamin / May 8, 2015
At around the eleventh track, my mind started to wander
The writing on the wall
By Grace Hauck / May 5, 2015
Will Maclean art survive the jump?
The writing on the wall
By Grace Hauck / May 5, 2015
 
Onslaught of events hits Reynolds Club over weekend
By James Mackenzie / May 4, 2015
Festival of the Arts (FOTA) Springfest’s opening festivities, TEDxUChicago, the Rythmic Bodies in Motion (RBIM)  annual showcase, the Brazilian Student Assoication (BSA) Carnaval, and the Women and Youth Supporting Each Other (WYSE) Middle School Dance all occurred this weekend on campus, part of a flurry of performances and events happening as the weather heats up.
CSO goes for Baroque
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / May 4, 2015
“His comport behind the keyboard was... nimble, impassioned, and intuitive.”
Avengers feels like money grab
By James Mackenzie / May 4, 2015
"One can’t help feeling a bit fatigued at this point, no matter how well put together the movie is."
 
RBIM’s Disenchanted spreads the magic of dance to Mandel Hall
By Emma Broder / May 1, 2015
New show draws on classic fairy tales for inspiration.
 
“Love, blues, and drinking”: Madeleine Peyroux at the Winery
By Lily Gordon / May 1, 2015
"The audience was there to listen to whatever Peyroux wanted to give them, something real—not something happy."
The Sketch
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 30, 2015
Arts, Briefly
Organist Nathan Laube pulls out all the stops
By MJ Chen / April 30, 2015
"The sheer intensity and dissonance of expression seemed ready to dissolve into raw violence at any second."
After 12 years, reunited Blur strikes back with The Magic Whip
By Miriam Benjamin / April 30, 2015
“...the references to Asia give the album a sort of Lost in Translation vibe.”
Stevens can’t translate intimate album to 3,500-seat venue
By Miriam Benjamin / April 27, 2015
"Being alone on a huge stage evoked the vulnerability and personal nature of the record, which the concert as a whole failed to do"
 
Chicago Symphony Orchestra strides through Bruckner orchestral marathon
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 27, 2015
“Thursday’s greatest victory was making a work of many seams feel seamless...”
 
PALATExMAROON: Forty Carrots strikes gold in Chicago
By Emily Bichsel / April 27, 2015
A New York favorite fits right into the second city
Annual campus Pride Week offers veritable parade of colorful events
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 24, 2015
This week marked the beginning of UChicago Queers & Associates’ (Q&A) Pride Week, kicking off a parade of events that began this past Thursday and will run through next Friday. The events are as diverse as they are many. According to Q&A board member and third-year Kris Rosentel, this year’s festivities are partly rooted in tradition. “We do Genderfuck every year,” Rosentel told The Maroon in an interview, referring to the drag-themed ball held annually in Ida Noyes. “We also always have some kind of keynote, generally a poet.” This year, said poet was spoken word artist Kit Yan, whose...
Trainwreck lived up to its name
By Walker King / April 24, 2015
Trainwreck is a loving recreation of the classic rom com tropes
Attempt at unique indie rock album Foiled
By Miriam Benjamin / April 24, 2015
Speedy Ortiz has a distinct American indie-rock heritage but mostly fails to differentiate itself from the bands it was inspired by.
theSketch
By Andrew McVea / April 24, 2015
Arts, briefly.
 
Horowitz’s harrowing historical whodunit hits home
By Grace Hauck / April 21, 2015
“...Horowitz turned his academic research into an interactive sleuthing game...”
Caps off to B.A. workshops
By Eleanor Hyun / April 20, 2015
"Shows range from One Direction fan-fiction pieces to staged readings to dance pieces."
 
Eclectic show celebrates wide diversity of African, Caribbean cultures
By Grace Hauck / April 20, 2015
"As the Ifficial Reggae Movement band took over the reigns, audience members slowly shook their way to the front stage and clapped, shimmied, and sang the show to a close."
 
The Taiwanese American Student Association (TASA) lit decorated lanterns and floated them on Botany Pond for their Spring Lantern Festival.
April 20, 2015
 
Survivor’s account: Fire Escape’s 48-hour filmmaking adventure in pursuit of bobblehead
By Andrew McVea / April 17, 2015
Despite what its name may lead you to believe, 48 Hour Film Fest does not involve movies that are 48 hours long. Instead it’s a cutthroat competition in which teams of four are given 48 hours to write, film, and edit a short film to compete for the prize of a movie-themed bobblehead. This year I joined a team with the goal to make friends and a movie and to take that coveted bobblehead for myself. Once each team had a title, sound equipment, a tripod and a camera, they were sent off to make their visions a reality. What...
Fruitful weekend for student artists
By Priyanka Farrell / April 17, 2015
The Logan Center for the Arts was hopping and popping with fashion and art lovers alike the weekend before last. Festivities started Thursday night with the opening of Pink Chiffon and continued on Friday with the opening of an exhibit featuring fashion from MODA’s first cooperative effort with the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Pink Chiffon, a Department of Visual Arts BA Thesis Exhibition in Logan’s main gallery, featured the works of nine different student artists. The show included a wide range of modern media, human interactions, everyday objects, and unusual creations that display and highlight the beauty...
Art Institute finds common ground in religious prints
By Darren Wan / April 17, 2015
The development of the medium of print in both the East and the West is inextricably tied to the dissemination of religious ideas. A comparative exploration of religious prints in Japan and in Western Europe, Spreading Devotion, recently opened at the Art Institute of Chicago. The exhibit engages the material by closely juxtaposing Buddhist and Christian texts and images. Most of the exhibition consists of didactic images that could be understood by both the educated classes and the illiterate laity. European prints often depict events or personages that are easily identifiable, even by those Christians who are unfamiliar with scripture....
Seasons tapestry inspired by Rockefeller Chapel meditates on the passage of time
By Grace Hauck / April 17, 2015
When I think of Rockefeller Chapel, I think Gothic. I think stone, gargoyles, arches, vaulting, wooden pews, red velvet seats, metal lanterns, and stained glass. I think strength, structure, and command. You can imagine my shock, then, when I walked into Rockefeller’s east transept bay (the small section of pews off to the right) to behold Libby Chaney’s newest fabric installation, Seasons—a profusion of color, textures, and patterns. Not Gothic, to say the least. This Cleveland-based fiber artist’s impressionistic compilation of chronological snapshots, broken up into four vertical panels, totals 450 ft2 and covers all three walls of the east...
Wolf Hall television adaptation undressed
By Adam Thorp and Editor-in-Chief (’18–’19) / April 17, 2015
That is to say that the adaptation, which is now being broadcast as part of PBS’s Masterpiece Theater, is a remarkably careful and faithful representation.
Drenge goes from two to three in newest LP
By Miriam Benjamin / April 17, 2015
Drenge’s Undertow proves the case for the bass guitar. In his book Our Band Could Be Your Life, music critic Michael Azzerad describes the bass guitar player as having “a key role that wasn’t obviously key.” Drenge’s second band, which started with two members (an erupting recent trend—see also: Royal Blood, Honeyblood, Slaves) started with Eoin Loveless playing guitar, and his younger brother, Rory, on the drums. Their self-titled debut album was a grungy affair, lyrically replete with stereotypical small-town frustrations (the Loveless brothers are from the Derbyshire countryside). After relocating to Sheffield, the Loveless brothers moved in with Rob...
Closeted/Out (re)collects a century of stories from UC’s LGBTQ history
By Darren Wan / April 14, 2015
"While the collection of documents and artifacts were engrossing, it was the recorded interviews with alumni, faculty, and staff—available on iPads stationed throughout the exhibit—that brought Closeted/Out in the Quadrangles to life."
Uchida’s take on Mozart effortless, novel
By MJ Chen / April 14, 2015
"Listening to Uchida playing Mozart, I became convinced that this was how Mozart should be played."
 
Goats’ new album a Champ
By Walker King / April 14, 2015
"Putting aside the metaphysical side of wrestling, Darnielle emphasizes that beating the shit out of some motherfuckers can actually be a lot of fun."
 
Haitink reunites with CSO for memorable Mahler
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 14, 2015
"He pounded out the timpani solo in the beginning of the fifth and final movement like his life depended on it. The result, though deafening, was deliciously frightful."
New exhibit at the Arts Incubator explores trauma of Ferguson decision
By Eleanor Hyun / April 10, 2015
Only through looking at individual pictures was it possible to understand the piece of art as a whole.
Seven is a lucky number for the Fast and Furious franchise
By James Mackenzie / April 10, 2015
They may have been fighting international paramilitary groups, but in a way they were still the same people guzzling Coronas after a street race.  
 
White Men are Black Men Too? Young Fathers’ new album conveys political message
By Miriam Benjamin / April 10, 2015
This was the first sign (besides their winning album Dead) that Young Fathers wasn't going to hide its politics
theSketch
By Ellen Rodnianski / April 10, 2015
Arts, Briefly.
 
The Good Book makes good theater, conversation
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / April 7, 2015
"...The Good Book’s thesis is that the word of God is anything but dead: it is still very much a living, breathing text."
Ebert’s legacy still felt At the Movies
By Robert Sorrell / April 7, 2015
"...he was one of us, someone we could trust"
“Die With You” receives Bey-minus
By Andrew McVea / April 7, 2015
Rihanna's "American Oxygen," meanwhile, left me breathless
 
Camaraderie and crowd interaction electrifies SASA show’s Journey
By Eleanor Hyun / April 7, 2015
SASA is not just a show, it’s an interaction
Backstage with Clean Bandit, Grammy-winning British pop sensation
Backstage with Clean Bandit, Grammy-winning British pop sensation
By Ellen Rodnianski / April 3, 2015
Exactly a year ago, if someone were to have asked me whether I had heard about the band Clean Bandit, I would have responded with a solid no. Today, the Grammy winning band is not only a sensation in its native UK, but is also rapidly growing in popularity in the United States. Its speedy rise to fame was largely the result of its hit “Rather Be”, which was in the number one spot in U.K.’s top singles charts for four consecutive weeks. On its first U.S.-wide tour (it performed in Chicago’s Lincoln Hall in September on a smaller tour)...
 
The good kid returns to the m.A.A.d. city with fresh societal reflections
By Andrew Yang / April 3, 2015
While Kendrick takes on difficult social issues, this is also his most personal album
There is no protection against sex-themed horror film, It Follows
By Walker King / April 3, 2015
You don’t need to be a devoted observer of the indie movie circuit to notice a revival in art-house horror
 
the Sketch
By Evangeline Reid / April 3, 2015
Arts, Briefly.
It takes a village: CSO’s French festival hits on both the personal and the grand
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / March 18, 2015
There was a story floating around Symphony Hall Saturday night. As it goes, French-Canadian pianist and program soloist Louis Lortie had been rehearsing Vincent d’Indy’s Symphony on a French Mountain Air with conductor Charles Dutoit and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra earlier in the week when Dutoit noticed that Lortie was playing the piece entirely from memory. The touch was professional, Dutoit noted, but not really necessary: The piece is rarely programmed—the CSO last performed it in the 1940s—nor would it figure prominently into the pianist’s post-concert repertoire. So, why had he memorized it? Taken aback by the maestro’s intimation, an...
Mr. University: Fundraising event presents Greek surrealism at its absolute finest
By Will Dart / March 10, 2015
"The crowd...was compliant, but not nearly drunk enough"
 
Tannhäuser unable to hit high note
By MJ Chen / March 10, 2015
“...[Botha’s] hymns of praise sounded more like a three-star rating on Yelp”
Logan talk on foreign literature retrieves what might have been lost in translation
By Grace Hauck / March 10, 2015
"I was surprised by how much liberty he assumes in his translations—how much liberty any translator assumes, for that matter"
The Sketch
By Andrew McVea / March 10, 2015
Arts, Briefly
 
Student designers, high attendance make MODA show a run(a)way success
By Ellen Rodnianski / March 9, 2015
"It's so inspiring to see all the talent that exists within our campus"
Blossoming Talent
By James Mackenzie / March 6, 2015
Behind the scenes at Fire Escape Films
University Symphony Orchestra to tackle Gustav Mahler’s Symphony No. 5
The mountain that is Mahler
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / March 6, 2015
“...a symphony must be like the world; it must embrace everything...”
MODA: Back on the catwalk again 
By Sammie Spector / March 6, 2015
Fashion show featuring student and local designers expected to attract 1,300
Late UChicago chemist’s art exhibit breaks down left- and right-brain barrier
By Maroon Staff / March 6, 2015
"Hillhouse was more than a scientist; he was also an artist."
 
South Side Senegalese satisfies stomach
By Isaac Stein / March 3, 2015
Yassa African Restaurant combines decor, ambiance, and great food
 
Shaham plays six unaccompanied sonatas Bach to Bach
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / March 3, 2015
"There were just as easily moments where the decision clicked and the faster tempi better landscaped the musical contours of the pieces"
 
Despite its charming leads, Smith’s new caper lacks narrative Focus
By James Mackenzie / March 3, 2015
“[Smith] looks like he is having fun acting again...”
 
For the first time Café Logan features a student’s photo exhibition
By Darren Wan / February 27, 2015
"As innovation is often set alongside tradition, these tensions manifest clearly in his photography"
Oscar results debateable. As usual.
By Robert Sorrell / February 27, 2015
"The Oscars are important because they are judging, and in some ways determining the future of the movies"
The Sketch
By Andrew McVea / February 27, 2015
Arts, Briefly.
Egypt’s faiths examined
By Grace Hauck / February 24, 2015
A living approach to Ancient Egypt
Philharmonic shows true colors
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / February 24, 2015
"The secret lies in the Philharmonic’s sonic palette—one that isn’t afraid to let its colors run."
 
Sasheer Zamata brings Saturday Night Live flair back to the Second City
By Andrew McVea / February 24, 2015
"Zamata’s stage presence was so relaxed and engaging that it was hard not to fall in love with her."
 
Skip the lightweight Oscar bait and give some love to these movies instead
By James Mackenzie / February 20, 2015
"History won’t necessarily remember these films, and the Academy certainly won’t, but I will."
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / February 20, 2015
Arts, Briefly
Feast your eyes: Classical Entertainment Society
By Evangeline Reid / February 20, 2015
“...a performance just as quirky as it is profound.”
 
The DUFF isn’t much more than fluff, but the message rings true
By Maria Alvarez / February 20, 2015
“...the execution left something to be desired.”
 
Carillonneur carries on after decades of playing at Rockefeller Chapel
By Evangeline Reid / February 17, 2015
"...my jaw dropped and my eyes turned into stars."
Despite hype, Fifty Shades of Grey feels flaccid
By Walker King / February 17, 2015
"there was a sense that the crowd at Harper Theater could burst into laughter at any moment"
Researchers collaborate to discover new information on mummies
By Grace Hauck / February 17, 2015
C.T. scans fuel new findings in ancient Egyptology
 
The Sketch
By Ellen Rodnianski / February 13, 2015
Romance, Briefly. <3
Beards, woodsmen, and lumbersexuals—oh my!
By Will Dart / February 13, 2015
“...‘I think I’m more lumberfluid,’ he told me.”
Winter Dragon drags on
By James Mackenzie / February 13, 2015
The long awaited "adaptation" of Wheel of Time is not exactly what fans were hoping for
In break from Reg-ular study grind, the Reg offers day of fun and workshops
By Darren Wan / February 13, 2015
The Joseph Regenstein Library, affectionately called the Reg, is hosting its inaugural installment of RegFest, an annual celebration of the nexus of social life at the University of Chicago. Given the somewhat unsurprising popularity of the Reg’s Valentine’s Day events in previous years, the library has decided to launch RegFest in conjunction with the Academic and Scholarly Technology Services division of IT Services on campus– the organization that runs the TECHB@R at the Reg. Hosted today, on the alleged College Break Day, RegFest will be comprised of a series of half-hour programs. Some activities serve to aid students in their...
 
Women Rapture, Blister, Burn following their unsatisfying post-collegiate decades
By Taylor McDowell / February 13, 2015
"The play is an inquisitive vehicle for generating a sense of self and place within the individual whose own trajectory is not particularly mapped in ink or at length"
 
Sunrise at Sundance for film composer, UChicago alum
By Evangeline Reid / February 10, 2015
Alum takes long way to film fest
 
Social issues and music share stage at Grammys
By Ellen Rodnianski / February 10, 2015
"Sam Smith was undoubtedly the man of the night, taking home the awards for best new artist, song of the year, record of the year, and best pop vocal album"
UT roars during weekend of theater workshops
By Ty Easley / February 10, 2015
Students reimagine classic plays at Weekend of Workshops
 
A gap year spent in 1450: finding passions and restoring frescoes in Italy
By Grace Hauck / February 6, 2015
"I had been traveling all day with my bags from Berlin, and when you finally get there it’s just like...” she inhaled deeply. "You know what I mean? Like, ‘I have arrived.’”
 
Chicago icon with plenty of UChicago connections passes away suddenly
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / February 6, 2015
Simply put, he was a Renaissance man, one whose myriad interests were represented by the varied personalities he invited onto “Critical Thinking.”
ABC is Off the Boat but into the sea
By Andrew McVea / February 6, 2015
While the subject of Fresh Off the Boat is certainly groundbreaking, the show itself fails to break any new ground
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / February 6, 2015
Arts, briefly
 
New Björk album is cure for bloodless, predictable electronic music
By Andrew McVea / February 3, 2015
"As her astral voice and dreamy string accompaniment come in, everything else fades to the background."
 
Parson reimagines Beckett’s classic tragicomedy
By Darren Wan / February 3, 2015
Despite minor flaws, Parson's interpretation of Waiting for Godot captures the universality of waiting
Katy Perry plays the “Dark Horse” at Superbowl XLIX
By Evangeline Reid / February 3, 2015
“Perry is known for glam, fireworks, and what she calls ‘soft-serve sexiness’”
 
The Decemberists: more of the same but not such a Terrible World
By Walker King / January 30, 2015
"Self-conscious as ever, the band sets a retrospective tone right from the start"
Keepin’ it 100 on The Nightly Show
By James Mackenzie / January 30, 2015
"Wilmore is surprisingly adept at managing a coherent and productive discussion among parties who come from wildly different backgrounds"
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / January 30, 2015
Arts, Briefly
 
Overzealous direction kills Tosca faster than it can kill its own protagonists
By MJ Chen / January 27, 2015
"Her vocal performance fueled further disappointment, pairing a warm middle with an upper register thirstier than a straight white boy on Tinder."
Chicago hosts rockin’ indie fest
By Kiran Misra / January 27, 2015
Six venues. 46 bands. Five days.
Academy is Wild for Witherspoon
By Sam Zoeller / January 27, 2015
"...the movie is produced in such a way that the viewer feels immersed in the locations along with Cheryl”
Panel puts spotlight on city lighting
By Darren Wan / January 27, 2015
The iconic beacons of light have become a mainstay of the Midway Plaisance, illuminating busy sidewalks on dark, wintry nights. Such lighting projects have significant impacts on the urban experience, especially since artificial light compromises the human perception of light in the night sky. A panel discussion this week seeks to explore the tension between artificial and natural light, a concept that underpins and informs urban design. Apart from discussing the Midway Crossings project, the panel will discuss the role that light plays on the campus of the University of Chicago, by considering how light affects human behavior and how...
Despite its divisiveness, American Sniper deserves a fair viewing
By Hamid Bendaas / January 27, 2015
"As we see through Kyle’s story, [snipers] fulfill a paradoxical role of being the furthest away from any target they do kill, but also in a way the closest, as they watch and follow their target for the last minutes and seconds of their lives."
Bronfman’s versions of classical works are professional but lack creativity
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / January 23, 2015
"For all Bronfman’s polish and dynamism, something seemed to be missing"
An Englewood Chinese food odyssey
By Isaac Stein / January 23, 2015
"While it is clear that chefs and various other employees are scurrying around behind the counter, it is impossible to see what they are preparing or how they are doing it—the entire prep area is concealed from public view. "
Exodus draws on questions of identity
By Maria Alvarez / January 23, 2015
"As soon as one walks in, one is immediately integrated into the exhibit, even if one hasn’t realized it."
The Oscars get bleached, but it’s not a surprise
By James Mackenzie / January 23, 2015
Examining the controversy surrounding a decidedly Caucasian pool of award nominees
 
Celebrating the body with BODY
By Sam Zoeller / January 23, 2015
UChicago Maya show their moves at Logan
 
Empire bows down to leads
By James Mackenzie / January 16, 2015
“Unfortunately, the rest of the show cannot live up to the standards set by its excellent leads”
 
Inherent Vice finds virtue in its visual style
By Ellen Rodnianski / January 16, 2015
"...an almost dreamlike, psychedelic quality, which pulls the viewer into the marijuana-filled world of the main character."
 
Queen Anne Boleyn sings her head off at Chicago’s Lyric Opera
By MJ Chen / January 16, 2015
"...a voluptuous fantasy on the death of Anne Boleyn, second wife to Henry VIII."
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / January 16, 2015
Arts, Briefly
 
Logan’s Lands End exhibition expands the horizons of representation
By Andrew McVea / January 13, 2015
"The Logan Center Gallery brings some of the stunning beauty of nature inside to a more tolerable environment in the new exhibition Lands End"
Selma more relevant today than ever
By Paul Dillon / January 13, 2015
“DuVernay can do terror, she can do glory”
 
Golden Globes go rogue
By James Mackenzie / January 13, 2015
Hollywood’s booziest night raises a glass to outsiders
Don't get left out in the cold
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / January 9, 2015
Arts, Briefly
 
The struggle is real, but worthwhile for communal bonding, at Kuvia
By Sammie Spector / January 9, 2015
How far will people go for a t-shirt?
With dormmates snowed in, a guide to keep them cinematically engaged
By James Mackenzie / January 9, 2015
How to not suck at showing movies
 
Spektral Quartet to warm listeners with upcoming winter performance
By Evangeline Reid / January 9, 2015
"It’s a really high-octane show. It’s a lot of really fast, virtuosic, exciting playing”
 
Evading P-sets and finger atrophy, USO’s Hyun set to play Khachaturian
By Eleanor Hyun / December 2, 2014
"It’s not so much that there’s something keeping me playing as much as it’s an actual part of what I do, how I spend time."
Ditch the popcorn, grab the barbecue
By Hannah Flynn / December 2, 2014
Culinary school serves up a tasty treat for film fans
Yik Yak, still so frat
By Sammie Spector / December 2, 2014
"Because of its anonymity, I would definitely say something that I wouldn't say in person."
The Sketch
By Evangeline Reid / December 2, 2014
Arts, Briefly
 
That’s what they want you to think, man!
By Will Dart / November 25, 2014
The abiding appeal of the conspiracy theory.
 
Dickens’s Christmas comes early at Goodman Theatre
By Taylor McDowell / November 25, 2014
"As estranged as Dickens’s colorfully charactered and grime-besmirched London may be from our WiFi-enabled one, that world still manages to be both familiar and inviting."
 
New UT production of classic Beckett drama is anything but trashy
By Evangeline Reid / November 21, 2014
Live by the trash can, die by the trash can: Alex Hearn emulates Oscar the Grouch in this weekend's production of Endgame.
 
Famed director passes away
By James Mackenzie / November 21, 2014
Remembering Mike Nichols
 
Choice Fish and Chicken: first choice for gas station cuisine
By Isaac Stein / November 21, 2014
"My major beef with this place is not with the beef, but with the sauce"
 
Mutter and Virtuosi captivate
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / November 21, 2014
Group enthralls with Ringtone Variations
 
Dean’s Men find their “Muse of Fire” with punchy Henry V
By Jake Bittle / November 18, 2014
Deft direction and dynamic performances win the day
It came from the BSLC: MaroonTV cultivates murder, suspense
By Will Dart / November 18, 2014
Student broadcasting branches out with "Ivy"
 
52 years in, FOTA continues to make student artwork shine
By Grace Hauck / November 18, 2014
Portraits, comics, chapbooks, nails: Festival of the Arts (FOTA), one of UChicago’s oldest clubs, invaded Hallowed Grounds this past Sunday for a relaxed evening of live music, crafting, and student art showcases at its first-ever arts bazaar study break. Students came early and left late, soaking up the welcoming vibe while marveling at the hidden talents of their peers. Amid the dimly lit scene of students shooting pool and playing board games around a smoldering fire, five student artists manned stands to display their work and give tutorials. Allison Torem, a fourth-year majoring in interdisciplinary studies in humanities, set up...
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / November 18, 2014
Arts, briefly
 
Sorkin tries to salvage The Newsroom with final season; fails
By James Mackenzie / November 18, 2014
"Six episodes, no matter how good, are not enough to salvage all that this show could have been."
 
Still going strong: arts groups celebrate decades of excellence
By Evangeline Reid / November 14, 2014
The University celebrates long-standing relationship with the arts with Artennial events
Alum turns Plath, Hughes’ marriage into stirring, original musical
By Andrew McVea / November 14, 2014
"The relationship between Plath and Hughes forms the backbone of the musical, but the exploration of the individual characters really drives the play."
Cute robot can’t save Big Hero 6 from clichés
By Angela Qian / November 14, 2014
"For all its charms, Big Hero 6 falls somewhat short."
 
I am the Sax Man: confessions from UChicago’s last bastion of weird
By Will Dart / November 14, 2014
A lament for UChicago days past
Shuffle presents an FKA Twigs retrospective
By Patricia Nyaega / November 14, 2014
Shuffle, a new student-run website, brings its perspective on contemporary music
 
Brown headlines MAB fall show
By Andrew McVea / November 11, 2014
Last Friday, the Major Activities Board (MAB) brought together their annual selection of a rap and EDM tag team to Mandel Hall for their Fall Concert. This year, ambient electronic artist Cashmere Cat opened for Detroit-based rapper Danny Brown in a concert reminiscent of past years’ lineups, but one that still kept students coming. Cashmere Cat started things off with a set that took unexpected and musically adventurous turns. However, the atypical nature of his music that made him interesting also made him a poor choice for the MAB concert. The audience was in the mood for a rave, and...
 
Interstellar: Nolan’s grand vision gets a little lost in space
By James Mackenzie / November 11, 2014
"It’s not quite as balletic as 2001, but it is beautiful in its own way."
FlyLo gazes into the abyss on latest album
By Sammie Spector / November 11, 2014
Flying Lotus explores new, darker themes, layered over familiar beats.
 
After surprise 2011 breakthrough, Azealia Banks finally releases debut album
By Hernando Fereira / November 7, 2014
Harlem-born rapper delivers long-awaited premiere album
 
Korra returns for final season on Nickelodeon
By James Mackenzie / November 7, 2014
"It’s perfectly suited to our college-age blend of serious and silly that drives the ups and downs of our daily lives."
 
In new role, Gyllenhaal grimier than the accidents he films
By Taylor McDowell / November 7, 2014
"The film is creepy and skin-crawlingly haunting"
Stars dumb, filmmakers dumber
By Will Dart / November 7, 2014
Falls so far short of it's predecessor's legacy that this writer walked out early
The Sketch
By Evangeline Reid / November 7, 2014
Arts, Briefly
New software promises to thwart scalpers for MAB
By Isaac Stein / November 7, 2014
After a Spring ticket scalping controversy, one student believes he has the solution
Carell’s dark turn catches audience by surprise in new film
By Michael Cheiken / November 7, 2014
"The movie...is anchored by a truly sensational performance from Steve Carell as du Pont."
 
Not black and white: Justin Simien asks the right questions
By Konje Machini / November 4, 2014
Dear White People asks us to take a long, hard look in the mirror. We might not like what we see.
 
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / November 4, 2014
Arts, briefly.
 
Students explore identities, insecurities through photography
By Sammie Spector / October 31, 2014
"I immediately recognized in some of the models a bravery I could not put forward"
 
Ghosts of Hyde Park almost as scary as impending midterms
By Will Dart / October 31, 2014
"'You can sometimes see a woman's face in the window,' Fairbanks said. The ghost of Dean Art, perhaps?"
 
Not even horror film teens dumb enough to watch these
By James Mackenzie / October 31, 2014
Three horror movies are examined not but their merit, but by only the most superficial impressions possible
 
Queen of Scandal: The groundbreaking style of Regina Carter
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / October 28, 2014
"Her artistry is sensational in its lack of sensationalism."
 
Taylor Swift ditches country for bubble-gum pop with 1989
By Jake Bittle / October 28, 2014
I knew Taylor Swift was trouble when she started teaming up with Max Martin.
 
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / October 28, 2014
Arts, briefly.
 
Classical works De-Classified in USO’s Halloween production
By Hannah Edgar and Deputy Editor-in-Chief / October 24, 2014
University Symphony Orchestra opens its season with popular Halloween show
 
Umbilical cord noose leaves audience breathless in Smokefall
By Taylor McDowell / October 24, 2014
The middle class goes mad in Noah Haidle's drama of human relationships
 
Lyric caters to dedicated opera fans with Strauss’s Capriccio
By MJ Chen / October 24, 2014
"Of course, the whole shtick is an elaborate allegory for the importance of words versus music in opera. Duh."
 
Second City and Hubbard Street take leap with collaboration
By Evangeline Reid / October 24, 2014
It's run may be over, but this is a show worth fighting to bring back
 
Cannibals blend right in on new season of The Walking Dead
By James Mackenzie / October 24, 2014
AMC's undead juggernaut is super-grim and super-promising in its new season
 
Smart Museum carves out space to celebrate 40th anniversary
By Sammie Spector / October 24, 2014
“Why are these two pieces similar? Why are they even significant, if they can mean anything?”
 
Dear White People
By Simon Cohen / October 21, 2014
 
Renaissance Society showcases the newfound art of Josef Strau
By Karen Yang / October 21, 2014
"Though Strau draws from “clichés,” The New World, Application for Turtle Island is surprisingly fresh and playful."
 
Chromeo and Kygo get groovy
By Taylor McDowell / October 21, 2014
Your weekend electro-funk roundup
 
After break-up scare, Foxygen returns to life at Lincoln Hall
By Maria Alvarez / October 21, 2014
Indie-weirdo darling Foxygen makes its triumphant return
 
Riddle hints at new Potter trilogy
By Felicia Woron / October 21, 2014
Harry Potter and the Cryptic Twitter Announcement
 
String quartet opens strong schedule for UChicago Presents
By Evangeline Reid / October 17, 2014
Great performances are in store for Fall Quarter
 
Yusho shows Hyde Park a tastier version of a college staple
By Sammie Spector / October 17, 2014
"We started off with some light indecision served with a side platter of confusion: ramen is cheap, but Yusho is not."
 
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / October 17, 2014
The best in this week's arts events on campus
American Horror Story gets its freak on in new season
By James Mackenzie / October 14, 2014
Clowns continue to be terrifying.
 
British songstress Lily Allen sticks it to the man with Sheezus
By Jon Catlin / October 14, 2014
"Allen simultaneously parodies her competition and beats them at their own game."
 
Old band, new marketing strategy: U2 embraces the future
By Clara Sava-Segal / October 14, 2014
As if people needed another reason to hate Bono...
 
Activism is so in at Fashion Week
By Maria Alvarez / October 14, 2014
For canny fashionistas, the runway is the perfect soapbox
 
A technical wonder, Iñárritu’s Birdman takes flight
By Michael Cheiken / October 14, 2014
Michael Keaton makes his triumphant, spandex-clad return in this wonderfully strange take on the superhero flick
 
Fincher can’t silence critics, but his style speaks for itself
By Rob Sperry-Fromm / October 10, 2014
The adaptation of Gillian Flynn's bestselling novel deals heavily in gender politics which dominate its narrative, but there is far more beneath the surface
 
The Sketch
By Evangeline Reid / October 10, 2014
Recent and soon-to-come happenings on and around campus
TAPS revs up Streetcar at Logan
By Ellen Rodnianski / October 10, 2014
Tennessee Williams's classic play is revived by TAPS performers
 
He’s got a ticket to write, and he’s pretty enthused about it
By Will Dart / October 7, 2014
A Q&A with Ph.D. candidate and Amtrak Writer in Residence Korey Garibaldi
 
Big stars, small flicks: films of the summer
By Daniel Rivera / October 7, 2014
Four summer films you probably missed, but shouldn't
Chicago Fire-Fest Sputters
By Andrew McVea / October 7, 2014
Faulty pyrotechnics leave attendees cold
Art Institute explores the weird works of René Magritte
By Evangeline Reid / October 7, 2014
"However bizarre the content is he paints them with technique so realistic and compelling that the content begs to be considered"
After disastrous third season, Showtime’s Homeland soldiers on
By James Mackenzie / October 7, 2014
The spy drama returns for a fourth season, but the spark does not
 
Without titular caped crusader, Fox’s Gotham falls flat
By James Mackenzie / October 2, 2014
New superhero series looks slick, but lacks kick.
 
Don Giovanni: Mozart’s old dog gets new tricks at Lyric
By MJ Chen / October 2, 2014
Director Robert Falls' new production features some great performances, and some very confusing costume design.
 
Fall Reading
By Taylor McDowell / October 2, 2014
The fleeting beauty of Yasunari Kawabata
O-Issue 2014: (R)o-mance: Dating, Hooking Up, UChicago Crushes
By Clair Fuller / September 25, 2014
Ah, the O-mance. You’ve spent the entire month of September stuck at home, launching a strategic Facebook “liking” campaign to win the attention of that special someone in the Class of 2018 group and anxiously reading think pieces about college hookup culture. At last, you arrive on campus and meet each other in person—your time is now! But on the off chance that your O-week hookup isn’t “The One” and you find the spark fizzling by third week, fear not. Your college years represent a smorgasbord of social, romantic, and sexual opportunity, should you choose to partake. After all, you...
Hearth-to-Hyde Park
By Robert Sorrell / August 12, 2014
Promontory, a brand-new 53rd Street restaurant, bar, and music venue from the team behind Longman & Eagle: "Hope for what [this place] could mature into is what will keep people coming back."
 
Uncommon Interview with Transformers: Age of Extinction cast
By Rohan Sharma / June 29, 2014
 For my belated senior sign-off I had the chance to meet Jack Reynor and Nicola Peltz of the upcoming film Transformers: Age of Extinction in the Loop three weeks ago, staying true to my North Side roots. In an intimate room in the James Hotel, accompanied by fellow easily star-struck college students, I met the acting duo in person and heard the word “nightwalker” far more than I thought I would. In the film Peltz plays Tessa Yeager, Cade Yeager’s (Mark Wahlberg) daughter, and Reynor plays Tessa’s beefy Irish love interest, Shane Dyson. After having met them I can say...
 
Five summer movie events that don’t involve superheroes or megaplexes
By Robert Sorrell / June 3, 2014
To do: watch Rushmore in Pritzker Pavilion
Five ways to spend your paycheck in one place
By Sammie Spector / June 3, 2014
Disposable income, and where to dispose of it in Chicago
 
Platonic Love
By Richard Deulofeut / June 3, 2014
Porkchop settles down on 53rd Street, with disappointing results
 
Director Charles Newell transforms Court Theatre with M. Butterfly
By Taylor McDowell / June 3, 2014
Lead players Sean Fortunato and Mark Montgomery hold Court entranced
 
Classical Entertainment Society Greeks out for spring show
By Sammie Spector / May 30, 2014
Iron Bridal Feast proves that shadow puppetry and Sophocles go together remarkably well
 
Days of Future Past: A tense situation for the X-Men
By Zane Burton / May 30, 2014
X1 and 2 director Bryan Singer takes the beloved mutant franchise back to its former glory
 
Future shock(s) at Concord
By Noah Weiland / May 30, 2014
"Few artists aside from Future have had more say in making rap music progressive, in making it tuneful, pop-ish, sentimental, thundering, and weird."
 
Dinner with Three Maroons: Baba’s Famous Steak and Lemonade, digested
By Rohan Sharma / May 30, 2014
Arts, Viewpoints, and News take a trip to Washington Park for greasy cheesesteak goodness
 
Making a memorable Memorial Day weekend in Chicago
By Angela Qian / May 23, 2014
All the best from this weekend's festivities
MacFarlane takes a shot at the Western genre
By Andrew McVea / May 23, 2014
The creator of Ted and Family Guy once again brings the crass, but not the laughs
 
My big fat Greektown tour
By Robert Sorrell / May 23, 2014
All the best places to shop, eat and buy candles in Chicago's little slice of Greek elysium
Vacant buildings to art spaces: Univ. project awarded $3.5 million
By Marta Bakula / May 23, 2014
A grant from the Knight Foundation will help the Place Project create space for artists in the South Side
Fear and loathing in the trailer for Last Vegas, on YouTube
By Dan Brier / May 23, 2014
"The trailer for Last Vegas redefines the coming-of-age tale as we know it"
 
It’s in the air: Lem’s smokes up BBQ and sauce right
By Isaac Stein / May 20, 2014
Barbecue greatness awaits on East 75th street, along with an oddly discerning bouncer and a cupcake shop
 
And it was all mellow: A tepid defense of Coldplay
By Will Dart / May 20, 2014
Coldplay's latest album is bland and easily palatable. So is Coldplay. And that's OK.
The North Side Weekly
By Rohan Sharma / May 20, 2014
Maker's Mark and bad Table Manners in Uptown
British director Amma Asante makes big steps with new period piece Belle
By Russell Namalata / May 20, 2014
The inspirational story of Dido Elizabeth Belle comes to life in heartwarming new film
 
Platonic Love | La Cecina-22 of West 47th Street
By Richard Deulofeut / May 16, 2014
No longer to be outdone by old favorites "Casa-this or Nuevo-that," a Back of the Yards Mexican restaurant makes a name for itself.
 
A contemporary Renaissance in Cobb Hall
By Andrew McVea / May 16, 2014
Award winning curator Hamza Walker: “All I do, wherever I am, is try to look at some art.”
Godzilla: Bigger, badder, and better than ever
By Michael Cheiken / May 16, 2014
Bryan Cranston wows in new giant iguana documentary
 
Burton-Judson claims victory in Scav Hunt
By Evangeline Reid / May 13, 2014
It's all fun and games until someone builds a laser harp out of spare parts from the physics department
 
A vocal poet experiments with silence in new collection
By Angela Qian / May 13, 2014
Louise Glück read works from her latest book of poetry at the Logan Center last Thursday
The North Side Weekly
By Rohan Sharma / May 13, 2014
Miller High Life and checkerboard fedoras in Wicker Park
High budget, low quality: Penny Dreadful gets it half right
By James Mackenzie / May 13, 2014
Showtime's macabre new series is big on scares, less so on character development
 
The Sketch
By Tori Borengasser / May 13, 2014
Arts, briefly
 
Keep calm and carillon: Students take on Rockefeller’s bells
By Evangeline Reid / May 9, 2014
The carillon at Rockefeller Chapel, aka 208,000 lbs. of pure awesome
Brief: FOTAstic week for campus art lovers
By Taylor McDowell / May 9, 2014
Shake off the winter cold and revel in every kind of campus art under the sun.
 
Tell me about it, Studs: Best of the Terkel Art Festival
By Robert Sorrell / May 9, 2014
A few of the must-see events at this weekend's "Let's Get Working" festival, a three-day celebration of legendary orator Studs Terkel.
Summer Breeze scalpers get punk’d
By Will Dart / May 6, 2014
Summer Breeze scalping rogue Cunningham: "What I was basically trying to do was to add as much entropy to the market as I could."
 
Behind the wheel, Tom Hardy takes on another dark night
By Robert Sorrell / May 6, 2014
An action star puts B movies in his rear-view mirror
North Side Weakly
By Rohan Sharma / May 6, 2014
Heartfelt grooves and Urban Pale Ale in Pilsen
The Sketch
By James Mackenzie / May 6, 2014
Arts, briefly.
Obvious Child, a pro-choice movie with no cons
By Russell Namalata / May 2, 2014
Gillian Robespierre's new film brings the laughs, and the painful truth.
 
CIMM City: A marriage of movies and music across Chicago
By Andrew McVea / May 2, 2014
The Chicago International Movie and Music Festival features rockumentaries, music videos and student films.
 
The composer is dead
By MJ Chen / May 2, 2014
License to trill: A chat with law student/flutist Caroline Wong
 
Platonic Love
By Richard Deulofeut / May 2, 2014
Meat and greet a few of the beefiest burgers in town
 
Hyde Park Arts Center expands, takes local art by the horns
By Sammie Spector / April 29, 2014
A new wing, more artists in residence, and a giant dead bull made entirely of fabric rugs at HPAC.
North Side Weekly
By Rohan Sharma / April 29, 2014
ScHoolboy Q and bucket hats in Wrigleyville.
Miss Lee’s serves up better-than-Good Food on Garfield
By Isaac Stein / April 28, 2014
Sampling soul food in the heart of Washington Park.
 
The Sketch
By Robert Sorrell / April 28, 2014
Arts, briefly.
 
In fair Ida Noyes, HPCP takes a first stab at Shakespeare
By Angela Qian / April 25, 2014
The Hyde Park Community Players take on the Bard... with predictably mixed results.
Throwing punches at Frankie Cosmos
By Sasha Geffen / April 25, 2014
This piece, by UChicago alumna Sasha Geffen (A.B. ’11), was originally published in Consequence of Sound.  There’s this guy who keeps stealing the mic between sets at the Frankie Cosmos show. He did it after the first opener, a band of theatrically-minded locals called Richard Album and the Singles, and he’s doing it again now after the Lemons. He’s a white guy, shaggy black curls under a backwards snapback, drunk glaze on his eyes. “Who’s a Bulls fan, bitch?” he asks over and over and over. Greta Kline and her band set up their gear on the makeshift stage behind...
 
Reel time: 48-Hour Film Fest celebrates student shorts
By Russell Namalata / April 25, 2014
After two days of hard work, students debut a bevy of new short films at Max Palevsky Cinema.
Mountain Goats put on bleating good show at Old Town
By Harrison Smith / April 22, 2014
Twenty years and over 500 songs in, The Mountain Goats keep on climbing.
North Side Weekly
By Rohan Sharma / April 22, 2014
Tilda Swinton and elderberry ale in Lakeview East.
The Sketch
By Robert Sorrell / April 22, 2014
Arts, Briefly
Graffiti artist Shawn Bullen reminisces about the wall’s history.
Losing the 53rd Street Graffiti Wall
By Jamie Manley / April 19, 2014
The wall behind the Mobil Gas station on East 53rd Street used to be one of the few places in Chicago where graffiti artists could paint without being hassled by neighbors or the police.
 
Hillel commemorates ancient history with modern installation
By Evangeline Reid / April 18, 2014
Passover is brought to new life in Hutchinson Courtyard.
 
The Composer is Dead
By MJ Chen / April 18, 2014
A sneak peek behind the velvet curtain
 
George Will’s new Cubs chronicle is home run
By James Mackenzie / April 18, 2014
A lifelong Cubbies fan tells the sorry tale in his new book. Hey - you can't win 'em all!
 
Platonic Love
By Richard Deulofeut / April 18, 2014
There she blows! Pequod’s Pizza strikes black gold - delicious, crusty gold.
Straight outta Kingston: Jerk perfection, far south
By Isaac Stein / April 18, 2014
"Do not allow the iron bars on the storefront windows to throw you. This is a true diamond in the rough."
 
The secret, Brazilian underbelly of the Latino Film Fest
By Alec Ontiveros / April 18, 2014
Past Minutes "is an exploration of that which our media is meant to bring us to, to the making of a space in which the director, the actors, and the viewers are all spectators of something that has its own life, its own vision to be realized."
 
Holy hype, Batman! Review aggregators don’t make movies super
By Zane Burton / April 18, 2014
"This is your Captain speaking. Please ignore any arbitrary ratings on Rotten Tomatoes, and enjoy the film. Or not."
 
OLAS celebrates Latin American culture, diversity, and dance
By Daniel Rivera / April 15, 2014
The Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS) expresses itself, en vivo.
 
Rothenberg performs works at Logan
By Evangeline Reid / April 15, 2014
Career poet Jerome Rothenberg performed works new and old at the Logan Center’s Poetry Series last Thursday.
 
Death of a Salesman: The end of Mad Men
By Dan Ackerman / April 15, 2014
After a controversial sixth season, AMC's slow-burning drama finds its footing again—even as Don Draper loses his.
North Side Weekly: Eating burritos and watching Lifetime in Logan Square
By Rohan Sharma / April 15, 2014
Arts, culture, and overpriced beer in the North Side.
 
MCA curates Genzken showcase worth returning to a-Genzken
By Alice Bucknell / April 15, 2014
A bold new retrospective at the Museum of Contemporary Art.
 
The Sketch
By Robert Sorrell / April 15, 2014
Arts, Briefly.
 
The Order of the PhiNix Reunites in Mandel Hall
By Angela Qian / April 11, 2014
Dance groups from all over Chicago will join the campus crew this Sunday for its annual spring showcase.
Buying in bulk: Hyde Park’s new boutiques
By Alexandra McInnis / April 11, 2014
A quick look into 53rd Street's burgeoning retail scene.
 
Ménage à Trier: Nympho weds mainstream film and porno
By Russell Namalata / April 11, 2014
A young woman's strange, erotic journey from Milan to Minsk.
 
My Big Fat Bleak Wedding: Thrones returns with a vengeance
By James Mackenzie / April 8, 2014
The new season of HBO's Game of Thrones promises to be bloodier (and better) than ever.
Third-year stars in Ellie Lumme, local film critic’s directorial debut
By Robert Sorrell / April 8, 2014
Student Allison Torem and Chicagoan filmmaker Ignatiy Vishnevetsky team up on a new short film.
 
SASA 101
By Andrew McVea / April 8, 2014
The South Asian Students Association's annual cultural show hits Mandel Hall.
Your Inner Fish
By Taylor McDowell / April 8, 2014
A professor's big discovery hits the small screen.
 
Brass on the bayou as Dirt Red takes its talents to the Big Easy
By Kristin Zodrow / April 4, 2014
A student band finally makes the pilgrimage to its jazz Mecca.
 
Cloud Nothings on cloud nine with Here and Nowhere Else
By Zane Burton / April 4, 2014
Cloud Nothings continues to push its boundaries.
 
Trance talk: A light conversation with rock band Papadosio
By Robert Sorrell / April 4, 2014
“We’re kind of a variety show,” says Papadosio front man Anthony Thogmartin. Expect lights, though. Lots of pretty lights.
Future Islands wows at Lincoln Hall
By Tori Borengasser / April 4, 2014
Hot Singles in your area - at Lincoln Hall, actually.
 
How I Met Your Mother finale is less than legen – wait for it – dary
By Sammie Spector / April 4, 2014
The beloved sitcom takes a final bow. Say it ain't so, Barney!
 
UChicago Greeks compete in Crown for dodgeball glory
By Will Dart / March 11, 2014
Delta Gamma took home the top prize.
Divergent author and cast converge in Loop
By Kristin Zodrow / March 11, 2014
Mansueto and the Reg used for several scenes in the film.
 
War of the Harolds’: Woodlawn wins out
By Richard Deulofeut / March 11, 2014
Which Harold's Chicken Shack takes the prize?
 
The future of jazz comes to Logan with Akinmusire
By Taylor McDowell / March 11, 2014
California-native Ambrose Akinmusire led jazz quintet at Logan on Friday.
International Women’s Day speaks to new audiences
By Evangeline Reid / March 7, 2014
Reflecting expanded interest and reach—as well as a slew of new events—the University's celebratory week preceding International Women’s Day will culminate with an address by acclaimed physicist Young-Kee Kim.
 
Lady of the lake: Martínez makes waves as voiceless lead
By MJ Chen / March 7, 2014
"As Rusalka, her silence is alien in a world of song—she makes the glittering royal court her desert. There’s a desperation in her movement that’s both heart-wrenching and captivating to watch."
 
Spring Break Forever Books | The Maroon recommends…
By Angela Qian / March 7, 2014
Check out our top ten must-read recommendations for your spring break beaching best!
 
Maroons crush Spartans, enter StarCraft playoffs undefeated
By Andrew McVea / March 7, 2014
UChicago's own StarCraft team currently ranks as the third-best in the nation in the Collegiate StarLeague. With playoffs beginning at the end off March, does victory lie in virtual waiting?
 
SNL vet Buress brings big laughs to Ida Noyes’ Cloister Club
By Robert Sorrell / March 4, 2014
Former 30 Rock writer Hannibal Buress: "If you truly care about the environment, you should piss in your sink."
 
Asaf Avidan, acclaimed folk singer, Israeli good in concert
By Ellen Rodnianski / March 4, 2014
Singer-songwriter and Tel Aviv native Asaf Avidan rocks the Old Town School of Folk Music.
Who'll win?
Oscar Sunday: The Maroon goes for gold
By James Mackenzie / February 28, 2014
"Betting money on the Oscars is a bad idea." And yet, we know you will. Let us help!
 
For one week only, Gray Center presents University’s #PAST
By Alice Bucknell / February 28, 2014
Over a quarter in the making, #FOLLOWUS opens with a reception on Feb. 28 at 5 p.m. Opening night only “campus tours” will run from 6–7 p.m.
 
Ancient Chinese secrets: Smart’s latest makes western debut
By Lauren Gurley / February 28, 2014
Find out how "opera in Ming- and Qing-dynasty China was a progressive force that broke down social barriers both in content and in the way that it infiltrated every level of society." There will be crabs.
 
Bateman and his Bad Words arrive at Doc for debut, Q&A
By Rohan Sharma / February 25, 2014
Best known for the recently-revived Arrested Development, Jason Bateman will be on campus to screen his directorial debut at Doc, with a scheduled Q&A to follow.
 
Beyond the beard: History Channel’s Vikings
By Will Dart / February 25, 2014
Vikings star Clive Standen on filming season two: "I got a spear straight through the shoulder this season, and we carried on filming."
 
Percussion ensemble booms at Logan
By Taylor McDowell / February 25, 2014
Third Coast Percussion's dreamy set list mesmerized the crowd in the Logan Center Performance Hall as the quartet concluded its week-long residency last Friday.
 
Union Station à la MODA: Group celebrates 10 years
By Emma Broder / February 21, 2014
In its tenth anniversary, MODA aims for "overgrown hothouse" looks to ring in the spring season. Expect florals, pastels, dynamic shapes, and, of course, glam.
Take a break from work with more Work at OI
By Evangeline Reid / February 21, 2014
Full of engaging history and thoughtful connections, The Oriental Institute's Our Work: Modern Jobs, Ancient Origins is worth a visit before its curtains close this weekend.
Fallon tames the Night with debut
By Noah Weiland / February 21, 2014
"O’Brien is the type of host you’d watch with your college friends, but he isn’t suited to your grandmother’s living room. Fallon is functional in both settings, particularly with your grandmother."
 
SoChic: Not all that glitters is gold (sometimes it’s sequins)
By Will Dart / February 21, 2014
The results are in: Which Olympic athletes scored gold, silver, and bronze in looking hot and stylish in Sochi this winter?
 
Platonic Love: Feeding the masses en masse
By Richard Deulofeut / February 21, 2014
"You were in charge of the group reservation, and you forgot to make it." Now what?
Ari Eisinger leads a workshop on the guitar style of blues musician Blind Blake.
South by South Side: Hicks headlines UChicago’s folk fest
By Robert Sorrell / February 18, 2014
The 54th annual University of Chicago Folk Festival took over campus last weekend, celebrating artists old, new, local, and just plain folkin' good.
Post-reboot, Career Advancement is in a JAM
By Emma Broder / February 18, 2014
UChicago Careers in Journalism, Arts, and Media—the combination of two former Career Advancement programs—faces challenges in its first year of operations.
South of the border, an historical rant
By James Mackenzie / February 18, 2014
On the fifth year of South Campus's construction, we say, burn it down.
 
Belgium’s official best foreign film entry hits all the right notes
By Ellen Rodnianski / February 18, 2014
A tragic love story oriented around the cancer-stricken daughter of a bluegrass musician and a tattoo artist, The Broken Circle Breakdown is good—but is it good enough?
Pitchfork 2014 gets Beck to the future with initial lineup announcement
By Zane Burton / February 18, 2014
Notable acts from this summer's upcoming lineup include Beck, Sharon Van Etten, Neutral Milk Hotel, Kendrick Lamar, and Grimes.
 
For love and Linklater, the third time may be the charm
By Robert Sorrell / February 14, 2014
Despite the Before series's singular ability to make mundane moments romantic and extraordinary, "as Oscar season draws near, this year once again looks dim for Delpy, Hawke, and Linklater."
 
AIC’s Paul-David Young sneaks a swig of Molly Soda
By Alice Bucknell / February 14, 2014
In the act of concealing, Young’s exhibit stirs questions of authorship and identity, while probing the disassociation of artist from art.
In Logan gallery, artists contemplate alternate dimensions
By Janet Kwon / February 11, 2014
"...even before entering the circumscribed space of the gallery, one can unknowingly encounter elements of the exhibition."
 
With After the Disco, Broken Bells ring in sophomore slump
By Zane Burton / February 11, 2014
Broken Bells explores new territory (and does some backtracking) with their latest album.
 
Creators of 21 Jump Street build the perfect animated movie
By Michael Cheiken / February 11, 2014
Lord and Miller's bring feels, laughter, and nostalgia together in their first Lego-based movie. Some assembly required.
 
Tribes and tribulations at Steppenwolf Theatre
By Evangeline Reid / February 11, 2014
“Tribes is flawed, and yet it is easy to see how it has earned such warm reviews."
 
Concert at the Riviera: After 15 years, the Milk is still good
By Kristin Zodrow / February 11, 2014
Neutral Milk Hotel sold out two-night run last Friday, their first in Chicago since their hiatus.
 
In memoriam: Philip Seymour Hoffman, 1967–2014
By Dan Ackerman / February 7, 2014
"Although finding any kind of lesson in a death like this is more an exercise in projection than analysis, the effect that Hoffman’s death had on his audience is real, and it is important to understand why this death is particularly painful."
 
Platonic love: From curbside to (55th) streetside
By Richard Deulofeut / February 7, 2014
Despite mountains of meat, the latest incarnation of Bergstein’s NY Deli misses its trademark charm, homemade potato chips.
 
Long behind the camera, Allen finds himself once again in focus
By Robert Sorrell / February 7, 2014
For some, the resurgence of the Woody Allen controversy shows just “how quickly knowledge can taint our experience of art.”
 
For two days only, CSO brings Schubert mass to life
By MJ Chen / February 7, 2014
As led by conductor Riccardo Muti, Schubert’s Mass in A-flat, a 30-minute piece from the “master of song,” proves to indeed be timeless.
 
Best Foreign Film contender The Hunt sniffs out raw truths
By Ellen Rodnianski / February 7, 2014
Mads Mikkelsen, the pride of Denmark, brings weight and intensity to his country's official entry for the Academy Awards.
 
Pikachu and Mario meet Ida at twelfth annual Uchi-Con
By Andrew McVea / February 4, 2014
Modeled after comic conventions such as Comic-Con International in San Diego, Uchi-Con is "a shining bastion of nerd culture" for fandom experts and newcomers alike.
 
Rewind and relive Superbowl XLVIII, ad nauseam
By Evangeline Reid / February 4, 2014
As one YouTube commenter put it, “If you don’t get how this relates to Budweiser you’re an idiot.”
UBallet’s Esmeralda works the crowd with smooth performance
By Ellen Rodnianski / February 4, 2014
In its first full performance at the University, Esmeralda shone thanks to good dancers and great lighting.
Andrew’s Brain, Doctorow’s latest, has its head in the clouds
By Angela Qian / February 4, 2014
"Through Andrew we get a picture of the slow, stupid ignorance at the top levels of our society, with individuals everywhere trapped by their weaknesses and secret failures; a post-9/11 trauma-centric America full of aimless, unhappy nihilism, ceaseless questioning, and a torrent of psychological neuroses.".
 
The Barber of Seville steals the show with Figaro at the Lyric
By MJ Chen / February 4, 2014
In its latest production, Rossini's classic makes for the perfect rom-com for you and your sweetheart this Valentine's Day.
 
At Midway Studios, Nutting gambles with controversial debut
By Daniel Rivera / January 31, 2014
Alissa Nutting read from her debut novel, Tampa, which has been called a contemporary "gender-swapped Lolita" by critics.
So, Seinfeld and his car collection walk into a comedian…
By Will Dart / January 31, 2014
Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee sees Seinfeld translated to a new era, one in which his comedic genius is left unhampered by the trivial things, like plot points.
IFC’s Babylon is a rip off the old nighttime soap block
By James Mackenzie / January 31, 2014
With Spoils of Babylon, “there is always the sense of effort put into the show that its contemporaries lack.”
True Detective truly baffling in third episode
By James Mackenzie / January 28, 2014
Although the central characters and story lines have continued to develop, the script devolved into "philosophical ramblings" in the crime series's latest installment.
 
Quiet as a Maus: Silence speaks volumes for Art Spiegelman
By Jon Catlin / January 28, 2014
Spiegelman, last on campus in 2012, presented his multimedia project Wordless! at Logan this weekend. The project included panels from early graphic novels accompanied by live music. “I studied Mad the way some kids studied the Talmud,” he said.
At the Grammys on Sunday, Macklemore and Ryan Lewis (“Same Love”) stood by as Queen Latifah married 33 same-sex couples.
Lorde, Kendrick, Daft Punk rock out at 56th Grammys
By Tori Borengasser / January 28, 2014
The top five performances of Sunday's Grammys included a stripped-down rendition, a proud power couple, and an unexpected commercial break.
Tap dancer Glover STePz in the right direction at Harris Theater
By Evangeline Reid / January 28, 2014
The world-famous tapper seemed to float above the stage Friday during a one-night performance.
Oscar nom finds love and loss in Fellini’s eternal city
By Ellen Rodnianski / January 28, 2014
Director Paolo Sorrentino tells the story of Jep Gambardella (Toni Servillo), a Roman journalist who undergoes an existential crisis, to the tune of a "memorable" soundtrack.
 
At Harris Theater, Deavere Smith bids goodbye with Grace
By Emma Broder / January 24, 2014
Cook County Board Board President Toni Preckwinkle (A.B. ’69, M.A.T. ’77), actress Anna Deavere Smith, and David Axelrod discussed grace’s role in politics at Logan last Monday in the final event of Deavere Smith's three-week residency.
 
In Lasky’s voice, poems take flight
By Beca Alderete Baca / January 24, 2014
Dorothea Lasky read from her latest collection, Thunderbird, in Cobb last Monday. A self-professed "Queen of the Nerds," Lasky's lyricism took on a new buoyancy when read aloud by the poet herself.
 
No-braska: It’s not all black and white
By Andrew McVea / January 24, 2014
Alexander Payne’s Nebraska misses the field for the cornstalks by too often relying on stereotypes and empty scenery.
 
Artist Schultz builds Ren’s nest in Cobb rafters
By Lauren Gurley / January 17, 2014
Using materials exclusively from the Hyde Park area, artist Nora Schultz began her new exhibit, "parrottree—building for bigger than real," in The Renaissance Society this week.
It’s getting hot in Her
By Andrew McVea / January 17, 2014
Spike Jonze's Her explores questions of love and technological animism, at times "look[ing] too good to be true."
McConaughey stays gold on HBO
By James Mackenzie / January 17, 2014
Matthew McConaughey, who's going for gold in this year's Best Actor Oscar race, takes center stage in HBO's new drama, True Detective.
 
At Experimental Station, artists handle new gun law
By Alice Bucknell / January 14, 2014
"I revise my initial casting of the relationship between the beautiful and the violent as something more complex than exterior and reactionary: It becomes interior and instinctive."
 
The Lyric’s Die Fledermaus is Die party of the season
By MJ Chen / January 14, 2014
A lively and unforced comedy, this classic operetta finds a star in supporting performer Daniela Fally.
 
All adventurous Girls do: New season premieres on YouTube
By Jon Catlin / January 14, 2014
The third season of HBO's hit show sees Lena Dunham, creator and star, building upon what worked best from years past.
 
Everything’s made up, and the points don’t matter
By Will Dart / January 10, 2014
The Maroon talks to award-winning actor, musician, and comedian Wayne Brady about life, laughter, and Neil Patrick Harris.
 
Fall quarter retrospective: I’ve fallen and I can’t get up
By James Mackenzie / January 10, 2014
"And what better way to put off studying and suck away valuable time than to aggressively binge-watch TV shows on the Internet?"
 
With new series, Doc aims to reel in community
By Robert Sorrell / January 10, 2014
With new series such as "Sisters in Film" and "Neighboring Sounds," Doc Films gives a platform to genres and talents that might otherwise go unnoticed by mainstream moviegoers.
Kanye West, high on the mountaintop in Madison Square Garden. On belay? Belay on. Spotters ready.
On Yeezus tour, pride cometh before the fall (of Kanye)
By Noah Weiland / December 3, 2013
Touring for Yeezus, Kanye sayeth: “No new ideas without me."
 
Brace yourself for an avalanche of Oscar contenders
By Marina Fang / December 3, 2013
The holiday calendar promises to be busy as awards-season favorites (American Hustle) and dark horses (The Wolf of Wall Street) come into wide release.
 
Platonic Love: Holiday hotspots in the Windy City
By Richard Deulofeut / December 3, 2013
As finals wind up and days grow short, partake in such Chicago holiday traditions as Christkindlmarket, Walnut Room brownies, and lutefisk, brined fish gelatin.
As Suicide Narcissus nears close, poet Console gives eulogy
By Angela Qian / December 3, 2013
Poet Cyrus Console brought his sometimes cryptic verse to Cobb Monday night, reading from selections that represented 10 years of work.
Andreas Gursky’s “Chicago Board of Trade II”, 1999. The artist is shown in the third row, second from left. 
In conjunction with MCA, artist un-discovers Chicago
By Marshall Smith / December 3, 2013
City of Big Shoulders: Sarah Morris's film, the 10th edition in her series of portraits of big cities, is brilliantly moody. Indeed, Chicago lies at the very heart of the exhibit CITY SELF.
 
Professor’s undead clowns ring in new year at Theater Wit
By Ilknur Aliyev / December 3, 2013
The new run of Burning Bluebeard, a show centered around the burning of the Iroquois Theater in 1903, was directed by Halena Kays, a teacher at the University.
Unapologetically named Diarrhea Planet rocks out unapologetically
By Jeff Wang / December 3, 2013
Waiting for the CTA home from an effervescent Diarrhea Planet concert: "The feeling of communal exuberance is a joy rarely experienced in my daily life."
 
Hunger Games’ latest is better than stuffing
By James Mackenzie / November 26, 2013
Although Catching Fire gets off to a slow start, much of the play (and there's a lot of play) actually lies in the lead-up to the games themselves.
Pressing issues: My first gingerbread house
By Will Dart / November 26, 2013
"Whatever you decide on, be sure that your final product is sufficiently homey, whatever that means to you." Read on for an even greater emotional payoff.
 
Dench, Coogan click in Philomena
By Michael Cheiken / November 26, 2013
To complement the brilliant Dame Judi Dench, Brits Steve Coogan and Jeff Pope have co-penned an emotional, intriguing script.
La Traviata just shy of magnifique
By MJ Chen / November 26, 2013
The opera, a narrative of French love and tuberculosis, is a near-miss for the usually excellent Lyric.
Chicago Manual of Style: Happy Thanksgiving from us to you
By Zahra Jooma / November 26, 2013
"Who said fat pants had to be ugly?" Lovely garments to accommodate all your post-Thanksgiving hills of flesh.
“Brazilian rhythm and a laid-back New York groove” at Logan
By Robert Sorrell / November 26, 2013
The Anat Cohen Jazz Quartet continued the Jazz at the Logan series Sunday with a selection that included experimental interpretations of "La Vie En Rose" and "Rhapsody in Blue."
 
For the Lyric Opera, Wagner’s Parsifal is Holy Grail
By MJ Chen / November 22, 2013
Arthurian legend provides "intense, spiritual moments" for opera fans.
 
Artist’s hand-animated film returns to the rust belt
By Robert Sorrell / November 22, 2013
A filmmakers pet project, 15 years in the making, comes to the Logan Center.
Death Grips, but just barely hangs on
By Zane Burton / November 22, 2013
Death Grip's new album "is a definite departure from earlier releases—with mixed results."
 
Letter from Vienna: Having it all by taking none
By Alice Bucknell / November 22, 2013
Traveling is about turning off your mind, and your camera.
 
Letter from Toledo: A shortcut to mushrooms
By Lily Gordon / November 22, 2013
Sampling local fare while abroad in Spain.
 
Hemingway family’s collected stories don’t translate to screen
By Cam Bauchner / November 22, 2013
Director Barbara Kopple's new documentary on mental illness in the Hemingway family lacks focus, coherence.
The weekend flow with Joy Cho
By Joy Cho / November 22, 2013
Hamletmachine, fireworks, and Johann Sebastian Bach this weekend.
Timothy Edward Kane stars as the Poet in An Iliad, back at Court after an award-winning 2011 run.
One-man Iliad returns to Court for second saga
By Anna Hill / November 19, 2013
Back on campus after an award-winning 2011 run, An Iliad reverberates with the stellar performance of its narrator, a character called the Poet who is possessed by his own "intelligent madness."
Matthew McConaughey stars as Ron Woodruff, a man diagnosed with AIDS and told he has one month to live.
Dallas Buyers Club finds McConaughey as lone star
By Hamid Bendaas / November 19, 2013
When AIDS patient Ron Woodruff is given 30 days to live, he begins to find moments of meaning.
 
Of Walking: A constitutional in color
By Ellen Rodnianski / November 19, 2013
The ambulatory exhibit took as its inspiration a Rebecca Solnit quote: “It is the movement as well as the sights going by that seems to make things happen in the mind, and this is what makes walking ambiguous and endlessly fertile: [I]t is both means and end, travel and destination.” .
Wayne Thiebaud’s Salad, Sandwiches, and Dessert (1960) is part of the tasteful new exhibit.
With an eye toward America, Art Institute holds feast
By Andrew McVea / November 19, 2013
The Art Institute's new exhibit, which features an interesting Thanksgiving-themed gallery (and one too many fruit bowls), ultimately sustains an exploration of the American appetite.
American Horror Story scary good in new season
By Margaret Schurr / November 19, 2013
Time to reconsider Wednesdays as American Horror Story: Coven enters its third season, hits its stride, and finally gets weird.
Classical Entertainment Society stages bloody good play
By Will Dart / November 15, 2013
The hillbilly bluegrass opera, featuring a live band, overalls, and rad Flynning, is the CES's first show of the year.
 
In new experimental space, artists probe the gendered body
By Anna Hill / November 15, 2013
The Maroon sat down with artist Chase Joynt, who underwent surgical procedures for his gender transition and brings his newest autobiographical work to the Gray Center.
 
Franco’s latest looks bad in leather
By Robert Sorrell / November 15, 2013
Reeling: The Chicago LGBT International Film Festival nears its close with a screening of James Franco's film Interior. Leather Bar., which is ultimately unclear in its aims.
Platonic Love | A10 heralds new era in Hyde Park dining
By Richard Deulofeut / November 15, 2013
Despite initial glitches that included slow service, A10 will ultimately please both townies and foodies with an attitude that is genuinely playful.
 
Soulful Blake drops bass at Riviera
By Zane Burton / November 15, 2013
As part of his show at Riviera Wednesday night, the electronic Englishman and musician James Blake performed a chilling encore of “Measurements" that featured heavy voice-looping.
Weekend flow | November 15, 16, 17
By Joy Cho / November 15, 2013
This weekend, eat candy, watch films about public health, and neutralize the whole situation with some gumbo.
 
High on luck, Chance lands in sold-out Mandel
By Zane Burton / November 12, 2013
The Chicago native owned the stage Saturday for a sold-out crowd, performing tracks from his mixtape and Coldplay’s “Fix You.”
Fiction talks during weekend
By Lauren Gurley / November 12, 2013
Novels, like TV, are "endless systems" about everything and nothing, argued Duke professor Fredric Jameson, who spoke at the Forms of Fiction: The Novel in English conference this weekend at Logan.
 
Neo-Futurists reign in new piece
By Arielle Gerber / November 12, 2013
The Sovereign Statement, the latest from the Neo-Futurists, aims to establish a micro-nation in the theater. “If the ending feels predestined, it’s because it must be, by the nature of both drama and politics.”
Chicago Manual of Style: Trendy, friendly shopping
By Zahra Jooma / November 12, 2013
Chicago's diverse neighborhoods offer affordable options—from the Gold Coast to Lincoln Park and Wicker Park.
 
Aqua Tower architect brings North Campus home
By Justin Manley / November 8, 2013
Jeanne Gang has designed three new towers to replace Pierce, at heights of five, 11, and 15 stories; the designs remain faithful to the house system by incorporating triple-height spaces called "hubs."
 
Holy Macklemore! Rapper gives three encores
By Ellen Rodnianski / November 8, 2013
Macklemore performed Monday night wearing a wig and Bulls jersey. “And I can’t change,” said the rapper, age 30.
 
More pressing issues: leaf it to me
By Will Dart / November 8, 2013
Looking to start a new collection? Or just turn over a new leaf? You're in luck. Just leave it to us.
 
At Logan, artist presents on mixed-race identity
By Andrew McVea / November 8, 2013
Kip Fulbeck came to campus as part of OMSA’s Heritage Series to discuss his work on The Hapa Project, featuring minimalist photographs of over a thousand half-Asian subjects.
Weekend flow | November 8, 9, 10
By Joy Cho / November 8, 2013
This weekend, take in an Ibsen play, celebrate Black Friday early, and think about classic novels while eating lunch.
 
Though seasons change, veggies remain
By Kirsten Gindler / November 8, 2013
Make these wholesome, hearty recipes during these last fall days.
 
Warmly received at Cannes, Blue continues to stir
By Rob Sperry-Fromm / November 5, 2013
Actresses Léa Seydoux and Adèle Exarchopoulos, the latter just 19 years old, both gave riveting performances in the remarkable film Blue Is the Warmest Color.
 
At 41, Eminem finally grows up
By Zane Burton / November 5, 2013
Evoking a sweet sense of nostalgia through personal memories and bouncy beats, the rapper's latest release is the same, but more good.
 
Spinning Plates satisfies documentarian Levy’s appetite
By Robert Sorrell / November 5, 2013
Levy attempts to understand restaurants as a whole more than the cuisine they produce in his new film that features Chicago-based chef Grant Achatz.
 
Football book gives Chicago paws
By James Mackenzie / November 5, 2013
Without insensitivity, this new work draws connections between football and war violence.
 
My Bloody Valentine brings the noise to Aragon
By Zane Burton / November 5, 2013
Ironically, despite the band's reputation for intensely loud concerts, the two vocalists/guitarists "each said about 10 words on stage."
 
Platonic Love | Welcome to Ellis, culinary flashmob of Hyde Park
By Richard Deulofeut / November 1, 2013
The old food trucks have driven on. 57th Street and Ellis now host at least half a dozen newcomers—at these, it's sometimes best to go hard on sauce, soft on salsa.
 
Museum of Contemporary Art hosts stitchin’ new artists
By Andrew McVea / November 1, 2013
Chicago-native husband and husband artists Stan Shellabarger and Dutes Miller take a pink tube that they have been crocheting together for 10 years to the MCA.
If only all art professors looked like this.
Arcade Fire blazes with reflective new release
By Tori Borengasser / November 1, 2013
Reflektor, the stellar band's latest release, is far from a Funeral.
Weekend Flow | November 1, 2, 3
By Joy Cho / November 1, 2013
This weekend, see fab design at Navy Pier, gorge on fab pie in Hyde Park, and sample some fab theater workshops.
Ender’s Game is no fun for audiences
By Michael Cheiken / November 1, 2013
Despite help from first-rate cast, Ender's Game fails to build suspense—and characters.
 
With Redford at the helm, all’s not lost
By Ellen Rodnianski / November 1, 2013
All Is Lost centers around Robert Redford's nearly wordless performance as an experienced mariner lost at sea.
 
With American premiere closing, The Wheel takes a last turn
By Evangeline Reid / October 31, 2013
Joan Allen stars as Beatriz in Steppenwolf's production, which tackles the theme of women in war.
 
New assistant organist to perform at weekly show
By MJ Chen / October 29, 2013
Coming through the pipeline: Phillip Kloeckner takes care to play both classics and throbbing club hits during his Wednesday Rockefeller concerts.
 
With new score, silent film wins the golden ticket
By Jon Catlin / October 29, 2013
A silent film that tells the story of Lea Rabb, a Jewish university student in tsarist Russia, screened at the Logan Center this past Saturday. Grammy-winner Alicia Svigals and pianist Marilyn Lerner offered live accompaniment.
Reg exhibit sees color in commodity
By Anna Hill / October 29, 2013
Race and the Design of American Life revisits "vexed histories," extending its reach far beyond a simple exploration of racial tensions.
 
Twilight saga director censors WikiLeaks
By Angela Qian / October 29, 2013
Although Benedict Cumberbatch gives a superb performance as a paranoid, power-hungry Julian Assange in The Fifth Estate, the movie ultimately bears an "eerie resemblance to propaganda."
 
Eggers’s latest novel more structure than substance
By James Mackenzie / October 29, 2013
A different kind of campus: In The Circle, it's the site of an all-powerful social media organization.
CIFF finale: Pepper Land wins Gold Hugo
By Robert Sorrell / October 28, 2013
The festival concluded two frenzied weeks of screenings by awarding prizes to films from over seven different countries, showing that it really is committed to keeping the "international" in Chicago International Film Festival.
 
Steve McQueen tackles social isolation, moral naïveté with Slave
By Hamid Bendaas / October 25, 2013
You're already itching for Oscars—why not go see the transcendent 12 Years a Slave, an early frontrunner?
 
The Bad Plus Logan equals a Stravinsky revival
By Robert Sorrell / October 25, 2013
Following the Hyde Park Jazz Fest, Logan hosts a jazz trio whose drummer remarks, "This band contains some of the most punk energy I've ever seen or felt as a musician."
 
Off-Off, on point
By Sarah Tarabey / October 25, 2013
The sketchy comedy group begins its new revue with dragons and do-gooding: Next week's ticket sales will benefit Ceasefire Illinois, an anti–gun violence group.
Weekend Flow | October 25–27
By Joy Cho / October 25, 2013
This weekend, revive at the church, hunt at the zoo, and open the vaults at the Field Museum.
 
Big laughs as CSO stages nightmare on South Michigan
By MJ Chen / October 22, 2013
Aleksey Igudesman and Hyung-ki Joo don wigs, play pop tunes at the CSO.
Garrett Kiely, director of the University of Chicago Press
Pressing issues in print
By Will Dart / October 22, 2013
Garrett P. Kiely, the director of the University of Chicago Press, weighs in on the state of printing in the post-digital era.
 
Honesty might not make the best Poliça
By Tori Borengasser / October 22, 2013
Minneapolis-based band Poliça released the "empowered, strengthened, and maybe even embittered" album Shulamith Tuesday.
Screened for new class, film explores roots of gang violence
By Marika Van Laan / October 18, 2013
A former murderer employs history-like methodology to detail a violent story clouded by myth.
Dana Gioia was invited to campus Thursday evening to read from his collection Pity the Beautiful, which he waited 11 years to publish.
Can poetry matter? Gioia’s work offers absolute “yes”
By Hamid Bendaas / October 18, 2013
When asked why he waited so long between publications, Gioia borrowed a defense from Wallace Stevens: “Writing a book of poetry is a serious thing.”
 
La Bayadère puts Joffrey in first position
By Evangeline Reid / October 18, 2013
In Chicago for a mere 11 days, La Bayadère: The Temple Dancer was choreographed by Marius Petipa, who also made the moves for Swan Lake.
 
Among talented names, Pusha T stands out
By Zane Burton / October 18, 2013
What's in a name? The rapper Terrence "Pusha T" Thornton showcases a talent so huge it sometimes eclipses the work of other producers and collaborators on My Name is My Name, his full-length release.
The weekend flow
By Joy Cho / October 18, 2013
Current this weekend: Late-night Fight Club; dancing in the record store; roaming old buildings.
 
Platonic Love | A Japanese diamond in the rough
By Richard Deulofeut / October 18, 2013
Craving sushi? It's last call for Ginza, a River North gem where “the fish does all the talking.” The restaurant will close down indefinitely in a week.
 
Lyric’s Otello strikes all the right chords
By MJ Chen / October 15, 2013
Tenor Johan Botha stars opposite Ana María Martínez as the opera’s titular king. Cue Verdi's aria "Credo in un Dio crudel," sounding through Lyric's gorgeous auditorium.
 
On TV in Norway: So you think you can watch paint dry?
By Will Dart / October 15, 2013
What, exactly, is slow TV? And why is Norway so tuned in? Currently in the works are a five-hour knitting marathon premiering November 1 and a show titled "A Day in the Life of a Snail."
Philosophers move to take humanities back to the future
By Jon Catlin / October 15, 2013
Arnold Davidson and Julia Kristeva, both polymaths, each advocated for a new approach to the humanities in their discussion Friday in Swift Hall.
At Riviera, Impala can’t be tamed
By Zane Burton / October 15, 2013
This recording project of Kevin Parker came to the Riviera Theater last Thursday: "With the ability to capture the attention of increasingly large crowds using a live setup that is little more than the bare essentials, the band emphasizes that it is here to stay.".
 
CIFF continued: Festival enjoys the silence
By Robert Sorrell / October 15, 2013
The 49th Annual Chicago International Film Festival opened this past weekend, with ducks and foxes featured among beautiful, quiet films.
 
Frankie and Franz light the stage at Vic Theatre
By Ellen Rodnianski / October 15, 2013
The band Franz Ferdinand, of “Take Me Out” fame, played last Thursday to a crowd of over 1,000. Thrilled by a full house, dance-rockers Franz Ferdinand performed v-jumps, body rolls, and partial stripteases.
 
Smart welcomes traveling State of Mind to campus
By Anna Hill / October 11, 2013
The exhibit, which provoked wildly mixed reactions as it opened at its only Midwestern stop, contends that process trumps artistic product.
 
Lookingglass casts nostalgic eye on The North China Lover
By Evangeline Reid / October 11, 2013
Fourth-year Rae Gray (The Child) and Tim Chiou (The Lover) star in Heidi Stillman's new adaptation, which she began writing 20 years ago.
 
Arendt biopic hits the mark, but misses the woman
By Jon Catlin / October 11, 2013
Director Margarethe von Trotta's work addresses time the philosopher spent reporting on the internationally-watched trial of Nazi bureaucrat Adolf Eichmann: "Ultimately, the film delivers flashes of inspiration behind her thought, but falls short of genuine engagement with it; for this, you'll have to read the book.".
New book goes into The Room
By James Mackenzie / October 11, 2013
Ten years after Tommy Wiseau's now-infamous film was released, one of its stars, Greg Sestero, has co-authored a book recounting his struggle to become an actor and the pair's "strange, often untenable friendship."
At Logan, Strand weaves humor and verse
By Andrew McVea / October 11, 2013
The Pulitzer Prize–winner "encouraged the audience to laugh not only at his jokes, but also at the pretentiousness of poetry writing."
 
For cinephiles on the Mag Mile, CIFF promises film spree
By Robert Sorrell / October 8, 2013
At the 49th Chicago International Film Festival, films including My Sweet Pepperland, Stray Dogs, and assorted shorts are in the race for the Gold Hugo, the festival's grand prize.
 
Rapper Danny Brown looks back, moves forward with Old
By Rob Sperry-Fromm / October 8, 2013
On his third album, "Brown doesn't want you to have it so easy."
 
With kitsch and corn, HPAC steals the Midwest
By Lauren Gurley / October 8, 2013
As a group of artists grapples with consumerism in the heartland, "Sometimes you begin to wonder whether you're looking at art or stuff from your Aunt Sue's den."
 
Sleigh Bells trade sweet Treats for Bitter Rivals
By Zane Burton / October 8, 2013
Sleigh Bells' performance last year at Mandel Hall was well-received, but their new album shows weakness.
 
Bullock and Clooney walk on air in Gravity
By Ellen Rodnianski / October 8, 2013
The pull of this new blockbuster lies in its haunting silences and visual beauty.
 
Suicide Narcissus has artists in control at Renaissance Society
By Anna Hill / October 4, 2013
The new group exhibit comprises work from "artists who have tackled opaque and difficult themes with grace."
Atoms make electrons (and bodies) dance
By Zane Burton / October 4, 2013
Atoms for Peace, a band from Radiohead's Thom Yorke, is content not to take itself too seriously.
 
Yes, Master: Showtime gets freaky with new series
By Robert Sorrell / October 4, 2013
Masters of Sex doesn't quite check any of the boxes it's expected to, which is good news.
 
Creative writing faculty read in Taft House, then mingle
By Angela Qian / October 4, 2013
Two poets, a fiction writer, an essayist, and a translator all shared their work at Wednesday's "Meet the Writers" event.
 
Drake’s latest effort reigns supreme
By Noah Weiland / October 4, 2013
Rap is in a better place with Drake calling the shots.
 
Top 5: Five fashion flops to avoid at all costs
By Alexandra McInnis / June 4, 2013
Flip-flops, too-high-cut denim shorts, sheer clothing with bright undergarments, crop tops, and for men, critter shorts.
 
Top 5: Books to put on your “To Read” list
By Emma Broder / June 4, 2013
The Ocean at the End of the Lane, The Unwinding: An Inner History of the New America, Letters to a Young Scientist, Bobcat and Other Stories, and The Yonahlossee Riding Camp for Girls.
 
Top 5: How to save a Chicago summer
By Marika Van Laan / June 4, 2013
Nature, dance, theater, music, and museums.
 
Top 5: Windows down, volume up
By Noah Weiland / June 4, 2013
Drake, Kanye West, J Cole, Future, and Pusha-T.
 
Top 5: Top of the class (and of the shelf)
By Andrew Green / June 4, 2013
Kir Royal, Champagne Punch, French 75, Bellini, and a Champagne Cocktail.
 
Top 5: This summer, let’s play follow the tweeter
By Robert Sorrell / June 4, 2013
Rick Bayless, John Darnielle, Christopher Jobson, Sloane Crosley, and Chance the Rapper.
 
Top 5: Around the world in five must-see art exhibits
By Lauren Gurley / June 4, 2013
Smart Museum of Art, Victoria and Albert Museum, MoMA, Getty, and the Indianapolis Museum of Art.
 
Top 5: Funny people under the radar and on the rise
By Will Dart / June 4, 2013
Rory Scovel, Aparna Nancherla, Josh Ruben, Daniel Simonsen, and Jim Jefferies.
 
Deafheaven’s Sunbather soaks up best of black metal glory
By Rob Sperry-Fromm / May 31, 2013
Deafheaven's latest album will start your summer right, with blast beats and screech vocals.
 
Hunger Strike | Lord of the Fried
By Iliya Gutin / May 31, 2013
Despite its emphasis on deep frying, all’s well at Lincoln Square’s Isla Pilipina.
Weekend Warriors | Episode 5(4)
By Max Frank / May 31, 2013
"Astro Labs—the last film processing company in the city and one of the few labs still active anywhere in the Midwest—announced that it is closing down. This is a big deal..."
 
UBallet’s Don Quixote redux makes thoughtful gesture
By Ellen Rodnianski / May 31, 2013
UBallet corps members performed in their annual spring performance this past weekend at Mandel Hall. The production largely abandoned classical ballet for pantomime techniques.
 
Like all good books, The Interestings should be judged by its cover
By Emma Broder / May 31, 2013
Meg Wolitzer’s characters, rich as they are, invite you to “experiment in your 20s; marry someone you like to hang out with.”
 
Poem Present bids adieu to the year with Ariana Reines
By Alice Bucknell / May 31, 2013
The Massachusetts-born poet, playwright, and French translator read selections from her books Thursday in Midway Studios.
 
For Molière Festival, meet The Misanthrope at Court
By Angela Qian / May 24, 2013
It’s always fun to see a person who hates the world pontificate on the failings of humankind with a vituperative tongue. The Court Theatre’s production of Molière’s The Misanthrope gives us just such a character, all while providing a gorgeously produced, bitingly accurate commentary on the foolishness of societal conventions that’s just as applicable in the contemporary world as it was in 17th-century France. Not to mention what’s happening onstage visually—an outlandishly ostentatious combination of semi-French Baroque clothing, with cross-dressers, modern-day thigh-high boots, and garter belts. This first offering of the two-production Molière Festival gives us cattiness, love-lornness, gossip, and...
 
Eisenberg’s uncertainty principle: Does magic make the movie?
By Kimberly Han / May 24, 2013
Now You See Me is full of glossy, action-packed scenes. “Who doesn’t love a good thrill from cars tossing and crashing...?”
 
Daft Punk gets lucky with Random Access Memories
By Ellen Rodnianski / May 24, 2013
Random Access Memories, the latest from Daft Punk, was released just last week. The 13-track album, licensed exclusively to Columbia Records, is the duo’s fourth studio album. However, it bears very few similarities to their first three. Daft Punk has always been an exciting and slightly mysterious band to follow. Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo and Thomas Bangalter, the pair behind it all, try to keep their faces hidden even at social events by showing up wearing their trademark funky robot masks. Although they categorize themselves as an electronic/house band, their music has always been unpredictable. It is this mystery that allows...
 
With latest single, Kanye gets face time on the quad
By Zane Burton / May 21, 2013
On Friday, Kanye West projected the video for his latest single “New Slaves” on buildings around the world (Brooklyn, pictured above). His upcoming album, Yeezus, drops next month.
 
Late Live Show takes final bow while SNL flounders in the spotlight
By Dan Brier / May 21, 2013
Changes in how comedy is consumed have switched the artistic emphasis from being the best to being the first.
Summer movie round-up
By Daniel Rivera / May 21, 2013
You can find all the sequels, blockbusters, and tentpoles yourself. Here’s your guide to this summer’s indie/foreign finest.
 
Star Trek sequel finds success in keeping its crew grounded
By James Mackenzie / May 21, 2013
Into Darkness keeps "focus on plot and characters in a genre too often content to distract audiences with empty visuals."
 
Of Montreal stirs up 20 years of soul at Lincoln Hall
By Marika Van Laan / May 21, 2013
Of Montreal is famous for being theatrical, and their latest tour is no exception (despite what the critics will tell you).
 
Triple crown cocktails
By Andrew Green / May 17, 2013
The Preakness Stakes, close relative to the Kentucky Derby and the Belmont Stakes, will happen this Saturday. Toast the winning horses with a mint julep, "Black-Eyed Susan," or "Belmont Breezer," made with whiskey, sherry, and lots of juice.
 
Indie Darling Koenig’s Modern Vampires doesn’t suck
By Rob Sperry-Fromm / May 17, 2013
An ambivalent fan discusses why "Step" and "Hannah Hunt" are the high points of Vampire Weekend's latest release.
A Guide to Summer Breeze 2013
By Kirsten Gindler / May 17, 2013
This weekend, eat soft pretzels and burgers, and listen to the recently-booked Smith Westerns.
 
Hunger Strike: The strange case of Dr. Gelée and Mr. Fries
By Iliya Gutin / May 17, 2013
The Promontory, the Hyde Park branch of Longman & Eagle, will be opening soon.
 
Weekend Warriors: The Northwest Chicago Film Society
By Max Frank / May 17, 2013
Next week at The Portage, Sean Connery's “sci-fi odyssey” Zardoz will be playing for $5.
 
At Goodman, Vera Stark confronts race, Hollywood
By Lauren Gurley / May 14, 2013
Tamberla Perry plays the titular character, a black actress struggling to make it in early Hollywood, in Pulitzer Prize winner Lynn Nottage’s new work, By the Way, Meet Vera Stark.
 
Luhrmann’s Gatsby looks so cool, but nobody’s loving it
By Angela Qian / May 14, 2013
Baz Luhrmann's film adaptation of the classic American novel finds stability in Carey Mulligan, and little else.
 
All that was: Salter novel tries to reflect a life of love
By John Gamino / May 13, 2013
It's been 34 years since 87-year-old novelist James Salter published a book. In All That Is, the life of the protagonist, Philip Bowman, might be meant to mirror Salter's own.
 
Trouble finds The National stripped down and on repeat
By Tori Borengasser / May 13, 2013
The band's sixth studio album is "rife with thoughtful, brilliant lyrics" and boasts "a shining anthem."
British darling Daughter plays to sedate crowd at Lincoln Hall
By Ellen Rodnianski / May 13, 2013
Performing with New York-based band Wilsen, the London trio played from their latest album, If You Leave, as well as from their much adored previous EPs.
 
Ladies’ night draws crowd for Midwest Indie
By Robert Sorrell / May 10, 2013
At the Midwest Independent Film Festival, “tremendous range was shown” in the selected eight shorts, all directed, written, and/or produced by female Midwesterners.
 
Ongoing discussion series at Incubator engages artist and audience
By Kimberly Han / May 10, 2013
The Arts Incubator in Washington Park will be bustling with events in the coming months. The space opened in March on the corner of Garfield Boulevard and Prairie Avenue in a building right across from the Green Line station. The University of Chicago’s Arts and Public Life initiative is affiliated with the venue as a partner to improve, and more importantly, embrace the arts culture in the community. According to Theaster Gates, the director of Arts and Public Life, “The University’s Arts and Public Life initiative seeks to build artistic connections between the University of Chicago, local artists, and the...
Do What You’re Told
By Emma Broder / May 10, 2013
This weekend get your Joan Crawford on
 
With new album, Deerhunter bucks trend
By Zane Burton / May 10, 2013
In their sixth studio album, Deerhunter treads new territory while maintaining their trademark good game.
 
Iron Man 3 burnishes gold legacy
By Will Dart / May 7, 2013
Is Iron Man 3 the first "big summer movie" that we're supposed to see?
 
Virgin Suicides author to read work for annual residency at Logan
By Emma Broder / May 7, 2013
Jeffrey Eugenides, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Middlesex, will be on campus to read from his latest work and to conduct a craft seminar for creative writing students.
 
With latest mixtape, Chicago-born rapper’s stars are out
By Robert Sorrell / May 7, 2013
Chance the Rapper and the Save Money Crew “have the opportunity to lead a Chicago renaissance of sorts.”
 
Gatsby offers tunes to float in the pool to
By Sarah Tarabey / May 7, 2013
In his signature old-meets-new style, director Baz Luhrmann’s rendition of The Great Gatsby injects a decidedly modern flavor to the classic tale of love and loss set in the midst of the Roaring Twenties. In a similar fashion, the film’s soundtrack picks up those trademark jazzy and bluesy, free-flowing, leave-your-problems-at-the-door sounds of times past and blends them with current artists’ respective styles—almost as if the latter were the inevitable musical continuation of the former. The result: a very deliberate thematic homage to Fitzgerald’s novel which still leaves room for new musical genres and styles to convey the same encompassing “larger-than-life”...
 
Purity Ring fits Metro Chicago just right
By Kunal Basu-Dutta / May 7, 2013
Playing with Blue Hawaii, the indie darling shone in spite of its limited discography.
Documentary powers discussion at Logan
By James Mackenzie / May 7, 2013
This past Sunday, the Logan Center held a screening and panel for Pandora’s Promise, the latest documentary from Academy Award–nominated filmmaker Robert Stone. The film covers the controversial issue of nuclear power, presenting it as the ideal solution to humanity’s energy and environmental woes. The film is presented as a brief history of nuclear power, from the first nuclear submarine all the way to the disaster of the Fukushima plant in Japan and its aftermath. Along the way, viewers are treated to an overview of both the science behind nuclear power and the debate over it that continues to this...
 
With first pourover bar, dotCross hits the grounds running
By Alexandra McInnis / May 3, 2013
For dotCross’s first public outing with its Uncommon Funds, it served up two different blends of coffee for free in Common Knowledge Café.
 
One tequila, two tequila, three tequila for Cinco de Mayo
By Andrew Green / May 3, 2013
This Sunday, have a shot at love with tequilas Blanco, Reposado, and Añejo.
 
Latest programming from Netflix lacks bite
By Daniel Rivera / May 3, 2013
Hemlock Grove drops the ball “with little enough punch to make sure it’s fun for no one.”
Sem Co-Op hosts reading for homegrown publication
By Lauren Gurley / May 3, 2013
Local magazine The Point held a reading of their latest issue on Wednesday evening at the Seminary Co-Op bookstore, welcoming students, faculty, and community alike.
 
Renaissance Society gets a rise out of Pope.L’s new exhibit
By Alice Bucknell / April 30, 2013
Forlesen, the William Pope.L show at the Renaissance Society that opened last Sunday, capitalizes on our obsessive need to categorize and to make sense of the world around us, and it does this by consistently not making sense. Architecturally, the show is sort of an impossibly convoluted maze, and sort of a very basic grid, and therefore neither. We enter in, we see that peeling ketchup-smeared wall and then smell it (or is it the other way around?), and we think, immediately, something along the lines of, “What the fuck?” The mental sirens go off, the push-pull dynamic of simultaneous...
 
Hunger Strike | One of these wings (is not like the others)
By Iliya Gutin / April 30, 2013
This one goes out to all the lovely angel investors and venture capitalists in the audience tonight, itching to spread your seed funding all over some hot and heavy young start-up. I bet your IPO is growing already, no little blue pill necessary. And now that I have your attention and wallet (at least, I hope that’s your wallet), let’s get down to some real business…Indonesian-themed restaurant, baby! C’mon, hear me out. I call it Water Buffalo Wild Wings, and it may or may not be loosely based off a recent meal I had at Rickshaw Republic in Lincoln Park....
 
With his latest collection, Sedaris finds his readers in fine feather
By Sarah Tarabey / April 30, 2013
In his latest work, David Sedaris takes readers on a snapshot journey through his life, from memories of his cluttered past to the present day. It is along this unconventional route—one which comes to span many continents, ranging from Raleigh, North Carolina’s south side to a taxidermist’s shop in England—that he offers reflections upon changing realities, both societal and personal, and ultimately provides insight into the very nature of what works to divide us while still holding us firmly together. In similar dualistic fashion, Let’s Explore Diabetes with Owls is teeming with a range of humor; Sedaris’s sharp wit is...
Gabriel Hartley’s Eyes (2011) was purchased with funds set aside specifically for the acquisition of “conceptually challenging” pieces of contemporary art meant to “raise important questions.”
Art cache proves there’s life in business school, after all
By Marika Van Laan / April 30, 2013
 For your typical art-loving UChicago student, the Booth School of Business is often nothing more than the building on the way to Doc Films. Some might even describe it as the evil capitalist factory tearing at the soul of the University and occasionally supplementing meager student incomes with its Decision Research Lab studies. Needless to say, visual arts majors and aspiring investment bankers have starkly different attitudes toward this institution, which is often associated with Milton Friedman and Ronald Coase. Yet both groups can usually agree that Booth is not a place for fine artists. When looking for art on...
 
Find XXX: Does UChicago have one sex culture?
By Eliza Brown / April 26, 2013
I have often heard friends who attend other universities refer to the sex or dating culture on their campuses. They usually say something about the “hook-up culture,” or the “you’re-married-or-single culture.” Indeed, college manuals and Web sites for prospective students often include whole sections about what sex and dating are like on campus. I myself asked the same questions when I was a prospective student at the University of Chicago. However, four years later, if someone were to ask me to describe the sex culture at UChicago, I am not sure that I would have a ready answer. Accordingly, I...
Sem Co-Op documentarians write new chapter with Reg exhibit
By Robert Sorrell / April 26, 2013
Remember the good ol’ days, before the Becker Friedman Institute moved in? Us, too.
 
Ebert gives last thumbs up to Malick’s To the Wonder
By Jon Catlin / April 26, 2013
Both times I saw director Terrence Malick’s The Tree of Life (2011) in theaters, once in the U.K. and once in the Chicago suburbs, impatient audience members laughed in disbelief and left mid-screening. Other theaters purportedly knew enough to post notices at the box office: “Art film—no refunds.” On seeing Malick’s latest, To the Wonder, returning viewers will quickly identify its stunning cinematography and rich soundtrack, as well as its ambitious philosophical and religious themes, as those of The Tree of Life. More similar to its predecessor still, To the Wonder is not exactly easy to follow. As many have...
Dax magazine promises to be the best thing since Sliced Bread
By James Mackenzie / April 26, 2013
Campus's latest literary magazine promises to be "The New Yorker on acid."
Do What You’re Told
By Emma Broder / April 26, 2013
This weekend watch Dr. Who, get your anarchy on, and eat boiled crawfish.
 
Old favorites, fresh tracks: Spring album roundup
By Marshall Smith / April 23, 2013
Check out the springtime latest from a slew of bands you might've thought gone extinct by now.
 
Storytelling collective gets personal
By Angela Qian / April 23, 2013
Memoryhouse literary magazine brings intimacy and honesty to Logan in an evening hosted by 2nd Story.
MFA exhibitions spotlight talent
By Tianyuan Deng / April 23, 2013
Logan's ongoing MFA exhibitions create community around UChicago arts.
 
Weekend Warriors | Repo Man’s always intense
By Max Frank / April 23, 2013
The Doc Films Thursday night lineup, "Headbangersploitation: Heavy Metal on Film," is a much-needed exercise in sincerity and maintaining one's capacity for life.
 
Chicago Manual of Style | Second City chic
By Alexandra McInnis / April 23, 2013
StyleChicago.com's fashion show, "The Art of Fashion," shows that local designers succeed when they hone in on the fashions most deliberately their own.
Adam Levine, a MAPH student and member of Occam’s Razor, tells prospective student Ellis Powell a themed pickup line at a prospie show in Reynolds Club earlier last week. 
On campus stage, comedy troupe finds heart of sharpness
By Will Dart / April 19, 2013
At their first show of the quarter, Occam's Razor plans to poke fun at all the Metcalfs you didn't get.
 
At Franke Institute, writer David Shields on the defensive
By Tianyuan Deng / April 19, 2013
Responding to student questions at a talk on campus Monday, Shields said, “I have already answered the question, and I would not reinscribe that.”
Artists destroy matter to create meaning at MCA
By Alice Bucknell / April 19, 2013
In an exhibit that will run through this spring, artists cut, slash, and burn their way toward reappropriation of wartime experiences.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / April 19, 2013
This weekend, get your foodie swag on, hear storytelling at Logan, and experience "girl-on-girl action at its very best."
 
GastroConference takes a bite of Chicago’s food scene
By Alexandra McInnis / April 16, 2013
 It’s no secret that Chicago is a city for diverse food experiences, with devoted restaurant-goers seeking out authentic ethnic cuisines at hole-in-the-wall locations, or vying for tables at big names like Next and Alinea. As foodies in 2013, we approach eating experiences with a heightened set of expectations for the ambiance, food quality, and presentation (somewhat due to iPhone photography), but it’s difficult to pin down what makes a culinary enterprise successful and what makes for a flop. The food industry experts and entrepreneurs of Chicago and beyond gathered at the EnvisionDo GastroConference held in Ida Noyes Hall this past...
 
Happy trails for HPAC resident
By Lauren Gurley / April 16, 2013
Artist-in-residence Jeremiah Hulsebos-Spofford's exhibit, Hall of Khan, finds itself muddled in disparate media.
 
Where fun comes to eat fondue and dance in Skechers
By Marika Van Laan / April 16, 2013
In its second year, the Pierce Tower Awkward Ball finds laughter and questionable dance moves. Due to the planned demolition of Pierce, the ball’s future is uncertain.
 
At Music Box, Carruth premieres Color feature
By Hamid Bendaas / April 16, 2013
With his second fil Upstream Color, filmmaker Shane Carruth finds success in writing, directing, scoring, and starring.
 
Trance parks itself firmly between opposing ideals
By James Mackenzie / April 16, 2013
From Academy Award-winning director Danny Boyle, Trance
 
In Mandel, OLAS show a success for two years running
By Ellen Rodnianski / April 16, 2013
OLAS staged a 19-act show on Saturday night that incorporated campus performers as well as talent from Chicago at large.
 
Logan, meet DoVA: Undergrads share work in open studio night
By Robert Sorrell / April 12, 2013
Fourth-year DoVA majors opened up their Logan Center studio spaces for a night of art, drinking, and conversation.
 
In seeking a city, AIC’s latest misses connection
By Tianyuan Deng / April 12, 2013
The Art Institute of Chicago's latest exhibit, They Seek A City, misses the opportunity to situate universal themes of otherness in the present, and instead focuses on "turbulent and often tragic pasts."
 
U of C Press finds poems that stick
By Marshall Smith / April 12, 2013
In celebration of National Poetry Month, the University of Chicago Press has installed a poetry-dispensing machine in its front lobby. All proceeds benefit
 
Hunger Strike | Doppel-burger
By Iliya Gutin / April 12, 2013
 Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages…I am pleased to announce that the reports of the death of Kuma’s are exaggerated. OK, maybe not death, but possible demise. What began as a series of surrealist rumors regarding a possible suburban outcropping of the (in)famous burger bar quickly became a reality in the form of a second location, Kuma’s Too, in the utopian Brunchlandia that is Lakeview. Despite the scenery change, in this new space the song remains the same, as does the heavy-metal theme, booze collection, and bypass-inducing menu. In that case, what’s the use writing about...
Do What You’re Told
By Ellen Rodnianski / April 12, 2013
This weekend check out some zines,
 
Weekend Warriors | Being an inquiry into The Shining in 9 parts
By Max Frank / April 12, 2013
The Music Box Theatre, a repertory theater in Lakeview, is playing Rodney Ascher's Room 237—expect fake moon landings and hidden minotaurs (also, a secret message embedded in this article!).
 
PhoeniXword – Taking down the Maroon from the inside
By Kyle Dolan / April 10, 2013
When the University of Chicago Scavenger Hunt meets a crossword.
 
Zumba brings jazz-whupping workouts to Ratner
By Eliza Brown / April 9, 2013
Led by two charismatic instructors, this dance revolution takes on traditional notions of a campus exercise routine.
 
Gosling’s latest finds him stuntin’ like a daddy
By Kimberly Han / April 9, 2013
In The Place Beyond the Pines, a new family drama from Derek Cianfrance, one character believes that "If you ride like lightning, you're going to crash like thunder."
In Lolla land, ticket prices and music reach a high note
By Anastasia Golovashkina / April 9, 2013
The annual music festival, once on shaky ground, returns with scary-fast ticket sellouts and the Nine Inch Nails.
 
Chicago Manual of Style | White in the spring city
By Alexandra McInnis / April 9, 2013
Spring dressing blooms in its own right.
 
April rain, call it a wash in the theater: Spring movie roundup
By Daniel Rivera / April 5, 2013
Movies so bad they're almost not good (plus Spring Breakers).
 
In the spirit of the West, novelist Haruf offers a blessing
By Emma Broder / April 5, 2013
Benediction is full of beauties large and small.
Do What You’re Told
By Emma Broder / April 5, 2013
This weekend write haikus, get an indie dose of D&D, and go Hamm.
 
Director Chan-wook comes of Hollywood age—for what?
By Daniel Rivera / March 12, 2013
Korean filmmaking legend Park Chan-wook's English language debut makes use of an incredible cast in order to subvert the director's usual stylistic thrills.
 
A shot at spring break with lots of tequila, rum, and vodka
By Andrew Green / March 12, 2013
No matter if you can afford a plane ticket or not, enjoy spring break the way it was meant to be enjoyed with these three easy recipes.
 
Chicago Manual of Style | B by Alexander Wang
By Alexandra McInnis / March 12, 2013
At only 29, Alexander Wang brings utility as well as style to fashion house which, like many others, is looking to reclaim to the glory of its "Golden Age."
Sahmat Collective brings a history of Indian activism to the Smart
By Sarah Tarabey / March 12, 2013
The latest exhibit at the Smart proves to be one worth visiting for those interested in arts and politics alike.
 
Picasso finally shows his faces in the Windy City
By John Gamino / March 8, 2013
The Art Institute's new retrospective features work from Picasso's long-distance relationship with Chicago.
 
For you are crust, and to crust you shall return
By Iliya Gutin / March 8, 2013
Logan Square's new pizza joint Reno experiments with wood-fired bagels and spinach salad.
 
USO concert to feature heavyweights of German romanticism
By John Lisovsky / March 8, 2013
The University of Chicago Symphony Orchestra will perform Strauss, Mahler, and Brahms, among others, this coming Saturday.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / March 8, 2013
Friday | March 8 Sometimes hitting the bar can also raise the bar, at least where artistic vision is concerned. In this vein, Hyde Park Art Center is hosting ArtBar, its quarterly adult art studio with an open bar and DJ. The winter installation falls on International Women’s Day, and the workshops are somewhat germane to women’s issues, in the broadest sense of the term. Activities include a Beyoncé lip sync competition, an “(ovary) egg hunt” where the first person to find the hidden baby wins a $50 art lesson, and “textaport puzzle-painting,” the very first of its kind in...
 
Out of four speeches, Ali Smith fashions a cunning voice
By Emma Broder / March 5, 2013
Ali Smith's new genre-bending book, originally a series of lectures, finds power in its elusive narrative.
 
In new Art Institute exhibit, Kara Walker raises up her profile
By Alice Bucknell / March 5, 2013
Kara Walker's first exhibit at the Art Institute of Chicago, which was commissioned for its Modern Wing, touches on issues of race, gender, and power.
 
At Renaissance Society, Neff charts intimate territory
By Lauren Gurley / March 5, 2013
John Neff's photography exhibit just opened at the Renaissance Society. At a talk following the opening, Neff said, "I point my camera at people that I care about."
 
Lazer-sharp lineup rolls through Congress Theater
By Ellen Rodnianski / March 5, 2013
Dragonette and Major Lazer performed a concert that featured Diplo in a hamster ball, shirtlessness, and no babies (18+ only).
 
Brown cooks up homey show at City Winery
By Lily Gordon / March 5, 2013
Blues-rock songwriting veteran Greg Brown performed Saturday night to a crowd of special-edition-wine-sipping fans.
Alex (Alex Goodrich), Jonathan (Brad Smith) and Grandfather (William J. Norris) take a ride through Ukraine.
From shtetl to stage, Foer adaption illuminates historical void
By Jon Catlin / March 1, 2013
There is nothing "not so premium" about Next Theatre's staging of Everything is Illuminated
Karen Russell’s new lemon-colored book is batty in the best of ways.
From fresh blood, absurdist short fiction with plenty of bite
By Sharan Shetty / March 1, 2013
Newcomer Karen Russell puts many of her well-established peers to shame with exquisite, new short story collection.
In this photograph of the leads in KSO’s winter show, first-years Kevin Kim and Jaewon Yoon, its hard to tell who’s tutoring whom.
Korean Student Organization brings sass act to Mandel
By Angela Qian / March 1, 2013
In KSO's winter show, two students from different world initially clash, but not for long.
UT/TAPS stage heists and lows of twenty-something scam artists
By Will Dart / March 1, 2013
In Keith Bunin's The Credeaux Canvas young people make art, and a lot of mistakes.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / March 1, 2013
This weekend drink micro brews at a micro-bar, celebrate Dr. Seuss, and gain a font of knowledge.
 
At Logan, directorial screening keeps the true Bird out
By Tianyuan Deng / February 26, 2013
Director Xan Aranda spoke at the Logan Center about her documentary, Andrew Bird: Fever Year, which follows the titular musician over the course of a year.
 
Chicago Manual of Style | Oscar the slouch?
By Alexandra McInnis / February 26, 2013
As in real life, this year's Oscars saw women mistaking "plain" for "classic."
Director’s Chicago theater debut tries for meaning already manifest
By John Gamino / February 26, 2013
British director Jonathan Munby's modern take on Julius Caesar seeks to "release" the play for modern audiences. From what, exactly, remains to be seen.
 
For Sendak fans, posthumous tribute is a lovely, wild thing
By Sarah Tarabey / February 26, 2013
A moving reflection on love, loss, and family, Sendak's My Brother's Book serves as a poignant endnote to the late writer's work.
Salonen and Wagner transcendent
By John Lisovsky / February 26, 2013
Salonen leads the CSO in a rousing performance of a Wagner classic, with a flawless soprano to boot.
Don’t watch Nickelodeon anymore? You can still get that pickles family fix at Fat Rice.
Hunger Strike: A macautionary tale
By Iliya Gutin / February 22, 2013
Fat Rice has the pickles, but does it have the heart?
 
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / February 22, 2013
This weekend drink lots of margaritas, see competitive sandwich-making, and apologize for what happened on Valentine's Day.
Predictions for Oscar gold have silver linings
By James Mackenzie / February 22, 2013
All bets are on at this Sunday's showing of Hollywood's brightest stars.
Evan Weiss (left) and Harmon Siegel (right) in last year’s “Great Moments in Church History.” Notice their excitement over the sede vacante.
Off-Off stages economic collapse, minus the depression
By Alexandra McInnis / February 19, 2013
Two veterans of the campus sketch comedy and improv group discuss their upcoming performance, "Great Moments in Financial History." As the duo cultivated ideas for the show, RSOs dissed them via email, but David Axelrod was eager to communicate.
This table, a replica of the one used by the United Nations Security Council, can be rented for meetings or rousing rounds of mancala.
In MCA’s Exhibit, A, Macuga unites message and method
By Lauren Gurley / February 19, 2013
A Polish artist's dissimilar pieces ultimately harmonize through their consistent political leanings and, she says, "sincere" artistic intentions.
Remix to Rendition, hot and fresh off tradition: “Whence things have their origins...”
At Logan, Schutter’s frame subsumes its subject
By Tianyuan Deng / February 19, 2013
A new exhibit's main attraction is four gray canvases which serve to emphasize the nature of representation and the act of looking.
 
Idan Raichel “feels at home” at City Winery
By Lily Gordon / February 19, 2013
An Israeli musician influenced by many cultures' traditions travels to Chicago.
Rach 3? What Rach 3? Sibelius shines under Elder and CSO
By John Lisovsky / February 19, 2013
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra performs "The Water Goblin," Dvorak's symphonic poem; in the same performance, pianist Garrick Ohlsson takes on Rachimaninoff's "Third Piano Concerto."
 
UT embraces the surreal with Hotel Nepenthe
By Ellen Rodnianski / February 14, 2013
The latest from UT/TAPS promises a show to satisfy all of its audience's senses.
 
Community comes together for final season
By Margaret Schurr / February 14, 2013
New season, new writers: is Greendale Community College what it used to be?
 
UChicago student body catches on to viral romance
By Daniel Rivera / February 12, 2013
"The Editor," creator of Hyde Park Romances, and "the Webmaster," administrator of UChicago Compliments, explain how their web pages came to be and reveal their own V-Day plans.
57th Street Books Valentine-themed window display, all dessed up and no place to go.
Love the way you buy: A street-smart guide to Hyde Park’s V-Day specials
By Emma Broder / February 12, 2013
Walk from 57th Street to Hyde Park Boulevard, and you'll find the neighborhood's retail establishments flush with seasonal activity.
As with My Bloody Valentine’s trademark obscured sound, you get out of this album art what you put in.
Kindling an old flame can’t keep mbv hot or heavy
By Hannah Gold / February 12, 2013
My Bloody Valentine falters on the final three tracks of its new third album.
 
Pinter’s The Birthday Party takes the cake (tastes like sadness)
By John Gamino / February 8, 2013
Steppenwolf's latest production is a sobering, minimalistic portrayal of the Harold Pinter classic.
Chicago Manual of Style | Gentleman’s quarterly complaints
By Daniel Rivera / February 8, 2013
Always choose socks over flip-flops.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / February 8, 2013
Friday | February 8 The next installation of Michael Apted’s highly literal coming-of-age story, 56 Up, will play at the Music Box Theatre through February 14. Apted’s career began in earnest when he was hired as a researcher for Granada TV’s Seven Up, an experimental series in which 14 children from diverse neighborhoods and socioeconomic backgrounds across England were interviewed about their day-to-day lives and aspirations. The film crew checks in with the subjects every couple of years to ask new questions and see how old answers have evolved. The project, which was conceived as a way to gauge the...
HPAC launches new visual arts certificate program
By Nathan Peereboom / February 8, 2013
The new program seeks to create dialogue between the worlds of art and academia.
Li-Young Lee’s poetry considers sheltering and stormy love
By Angela Qian / February 5, 2013
Lee brings poetic food for thought to Logan in brown paper bag.
Is that an Oscar in your shorts, or are you just happy to be nominated?
By Paola Cardona / February 5, 2013
When an Academy Award is on the line, size matters.
Lim and Foreman make jazz with a dream
By Kimberly Han / February 5, 2013
From shaky beginnings, Minouk Lim and Chris Foreman craft an excellent mixed-media concert.
 
At the top of Reynolds, WHPK keeps its music underground
By Will Dart / February 1, 2013
A Maroon contributor spends the night with the storied radio station, which has seen the likes of Kanye West and Common.
 
Netflix’s original programming lineup is playing with a full deck
By Daniel Rivera / February 1, 2013
Netflix's first original series, House of Cards, aims for the quality of premium cable broadcasting with the availability of streaming, internet-based media.
 
Hunger Strike | Tacopocalypse Now
By Iliya Gutin / February 1, 2013
While Antique Taco doesn't reinvent the wheel, its fiery bowl of Chorizo Chili and its Chicken Tinga tacos, among other signature dishes, put Big Star to shame.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / February 1, 2013
This wee
 
Despite a weak first round, Café Logan has potential brewing
By Kunal Basu-Dutta / February 1, 2013
Café Logan’s ambient lighting and minimalist decor are more appetizing than its food.
George Saunders’ possible secret plan: make college students think they’re buying The Myth of Sisyphus.
In new collection, Saunders sets the perfect literary date
By Emma Broder / January 29, 2013
Tenth of December is a joy to read and to live.
Look fetching in fencing in this Valentino that costs more than any fence.
Haute for show
By Alexandra McInnis / January 29, 2013
At this year's Paris Fashion Week, designers asked, What Would Coco Chanel Do (WWCCD)?
 
Daddy Love in dangerously shallow psychological straits
By Sarah Tarabey / January 29, 2013
Joyce Carol Oates delves into physical and emotional trauma in her latest novel.
Rhyme Holden court at Logan
By Ellen Rodnianski / January 29, 2013
Catcher in the Rhyme, which will go to a national slam competition this spring, performs poetry (and haikus, and music) Wednesdays at Café Logan.
 
Penn offers the AIC plenty to chew on (and spit out)
By Tianyuan Deng / January 25, 2013
Irving Penn gets gum all over his couture camera in new exhibit.
 
Jungen & Linklater at Logan
By Alexandra McInnis / January 25, 2013
Two artists discuss Modest Livelihood, their current exhibit at the Logan Center.
 
Skylight on a family reunion, with failed political undertones
By Angela Qian / January 25, 2013
Like an awkward dinner with your family, Court's new production is often difficult to relate to.
 
Gangster Squad gets down with the gore-mongers
By Kimberly Han / January 25, 2013
Director Ruben Fleischer delivers a classic shoot-em-up movie with a high body count.
For Doc members, reel challenges await
By James Mackenzie / January 25, 2013
The Maroon catches up with the programming chair and former programming chair of Doc Films.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / January 25, 2013
This weekend don't let the cold keep you from the movies, eat lobster rolls, and don't go to Sundance.
 
With Amour, Haneke has his finger on a riveting pulse
By Daniel Rivera / January 18, 2013
The film, nominated for an Acad
 
What is a magazine for? Three grad students get to The Point
By John Gamino / January 18, 2013
The Point, which started as an idea between three friends in the basement of Ida Noyes, will publish its sixth issue on January 26th.
 
In Reg, zine but not herd
By Alice Bucknell / January 18, 2013
My Life is an Open Book pins a mix of autobiographical narratives to the walls of the Regenstein’s Special Collections Resource Center.
 
Hunger Strike | New kid on the block
By Iliya Gutin / January 18, 2013
If you like goat and good burgers, then as far as diners are concerned, Little Goat may be the place for you.
 
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / January 18, 2013
This weekend bike to work for free coffee, get your flamenco and tapas on one last time, and celebrate Martin Luther King Jr.
 
Quaytman critiques a campus institution from within
By Tianyuan Deng / January 15, 2013
The Renaissance Society celebrates and studies its history in self-referential show.
 
In season two, Girls just wanna make sensible life decisions
By Jordan Larson / January 15, 2013
As Girls moves into its much-hyped future, should it leave behind the mistakes of its past?
 
Globes under the influence of Hollywood ego
By Margaret Schurr / January 15, 2013
Actors sneer, rejoice and insult one another at the 70th Annual Golden Globes.
At Spertus talk, taking the next step Foer-ward
By Jon Catlin / January 15, 2013
Author Jonathan Safran Foer was extremely interesting and incredibly knowledgable in his talk at Chicago's Spertus Center on Sunday.
CSO’s debt to Dutch artistry continues
By John Lisovsky / January 15, 2013
Illness forced Chicago Symphony Music Director Riccardo Muti to bow out of two weeks of concerts in which he was scheduled to lead the ensemble—two crucial weeks, since they will precede a tour of the Far East. In his place, Dutch conductor Edo de Waart, music director of the Milwaukee Symphony, replaces him at the last minute for both the all-Beethoven concert, which receives its final performance tonight, Tuesday the 15th, and for the Mozart and Brahms program that runs this Thursday through Saturday. The Wednesday concert I attended is part of the “Afterwork Masterworks” series, which, on several Wednesdays...
 
Critical dissonance can’t stifle Les Mis’ storied voice
By Paola Cardona / January 11, 2013
Despite mixed reviews, Tom Hooper's Les Mis offers something for fans of the story in all of its various forms.
 
After six seasons, TV bids farewell to Generation XO
By Margaret Schurr / January 11, 2013
It's curtains at last for The CW's eminent hit Gossip Girl, but don't fret—its marriage of fashion and melodrama will live on in us all.
 
On Knowles’s latest album, sincerity is the mark of success
By Ellen Rodnianski / January 11, 2013
Solange's third studio album, True, showcases the singer's talents and style, buoyed by her new Indie label.
 
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / January 11, 2013
This weekend hear some hair metal literature, support your local brewery, and go for a pants-less ride on the Red Line.
 
Winter Cocktails: Three drinks to keep you toasty (fo’ chaud)
By Andrew Green / December 4, 2012
Learn how to make killer Thanksgiving Apple Pie drink, Vin Chaud, and Eggnog 2.0 (please drink responsibly).
 
Top 5 fashion of the year: best & worst
By Anna Hill / December 4, 2012
In 2012, you were never fully dressed without an assymetrical hemline—or with your cheeky shorts.
 
Top 5 TV shows of the year
By Tatiana Fields / December 4, 2012
Here are the shows we hope will be renewed in 2013.
 
Top 5 fiction of the year
By Jordan Larson / December 4, 2012
Get your nose into these short and long stories that rocked our year.
Top 5 Visual Arts Headaches
By Hannah Gold / December 4, 2012
From a botched portrait of Jesus to ditzy galleristas, a list of the year's biggest art gaffes.
 
Top 5 albums of the year
By Anastasia Golovashkina / December 4, 2012
A bunch of rockin' chicks lead the pack in this years best-of music round-up.
 
Top 5 movies of the year
By Daniel Rivera / December 4, 2012
From underdogs to auteurs: we roundup the flicks that made up flock to the theaters.
Top 5 Logan events of the year
By Qianyi Xu / December 4, 2012
We honor the Center that launched a thousand openings.
Interview: ON AN ON’s Nate Eiesland
By Daniel Rivera / December 4, 2012
The Maroon catches up with ON AN ON's Nate Eiesland to discuss its upcoming Schubas concert and its new album.
 
Hot off the University of Chicago Press
By Colin Bradley / November 30, 2012
Arts editors and staff review books that have recently been published or distributed by the UChicago Press.
 
Concert preview: Caravan of Thieves discusses fiery reputation
By Lily Gordon / November 30, 2012
The Maroon catches up with Fuzz and Carrie Sangiovanni to discuss everything from freaks to organic cotton.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / November 30, 2012
This weekend get involved with the University of Chicago's Humor Magazine, embrace your inner indie artist, and bust out your best ugly sweater.
I’ll make a Miyazaki fan out of you
By Paola Cardona / November 30, 2012
Though classic DAI
Tiffany (Jennifer Lawrence) and Pat (Bradley Cooper) express their mutual affection with insolent looks.
Box office turkeys: Thanksgiving movie roundup
By Daniel Rivera / November 27, 2012
Arts editors and contributors review three highly-anticipated movies that opened this past holiday weekend.
Jami Attenberg’s new novel The Middlesteins involves Jews, jokes, hamburgers, and fries.
Attenberg does suburban family drama medium-well
By Hannah Gold / November 27, 2012
The Middlesteins is a deadpanned tale of family, food, and everyday dysfunction.
Hunger Strike: Barbe-Q.E.D.
By Iliya Gutin / November 27, 2012
Irvington BBQ spot irrefutably smokes out competition with its many meats.
 
Ross’s candid camera documents incarcerated youth
By Alice Bucknell / November 20, 2012
Arts, politics, and social justice intersect at the Juvenile-in-Justice exhibit at the Gage Gallery.
 
At Court Theatre, a Feast of Epiphany to be thankful for
By John Gamino / November 20, 2012
The Dead masterfully balances holiday-themed spectacle with maudlin, Joycean truths.
 
Curtains for Wright’s flashy adaptation of Anna Karenina
By Alexandra McInnis / November 20, 2012
In all the fuss over its lush single soundstage, Anna Karenina forgot its most important component: the complexity of its titular character.
 
Chicago Manual of Style: Knit’s a wonderful life
By Anna Hill / November 20, 2012
This fall, fashion forwardness meets comfortable frump.
 
From Russia with architectural exuberance
By Amos Gewirtz / November 20, 2012
Richard Pare's exhibition showcases the beauty and cultural significance of forgotten structures.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / November 20, 2012
This holiday weekend eat vegan turkey, check out Meadow Lake, and wreath some giant lions.
 
The truck stops here: Shopping Ellis’s mobile market
By Tori Borengasser / November 16, 2012
U of C students discuss what's good to eat on the street.
Left to right, first-year Michael Findley, fourth-year Justin Krivda, and third-year Arielle Von Hippel star in the UT/TAPS production of The Real Thing.
For young, frustrated lovers, the play’s The Real Thing
By Will Dart / November 16, 2012
All the world's a stage, including your petty romances.
M. Oscar (Kylie Minogue) just can’t get this mask off of her head in Léos Carax’s Holy Motors.
Holy Motors shifts metaphysical gears into automatic masterpiece
By Sarah Tarabey / November 16, 2012
Carax's absurdist french flick suffers a bout of automotive genius.
Taft House, located at 935 East 60th Street, will serve as the new home for the Chicago Review literary magazine. 
The Review continues prestigious literary history south of the Midway
By James Mackenzie / November 16, 2012
The literary magazine that nurtured the Beat Generation reopens in Taft House.
 
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / November 16, 2012
This weekend, leave your house for R Kelly's closet, buy a hipster cookbook, and munch on art cinema.
Employees of the co-op gather at the front table, always laden with new academic work.
Basement bookstore flies the coop for a new nest one block East
By Ayesha Wadhawan / November 13, 2012
The Sem Co-op moves to a new location after 51 years; fond memories of sidling along narrow walls of books are forever.
Agent 007 (Daniel Craig) pulls up to a Turkish market in the opening scene. No good parking.
Bond shaken and stirred, with a touch of gray
By Alexandra McInnis / November 13, 2012
The incorrigible British Secret Service agent may be an aging globetrotter with low technological proficiency, but he's far from retiring.
Installation of Bivouac, Centre Pompidou-Metz, France.
MCA pulls a chair up to Bivouac
By Anna Hill / November 13, 2012
Bivou-what? It's an ephemeral encampment, the furniture you lounge upon, and a new exhibit at the MCA.
Author and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel described his reliance on storytelling as the
At 84, Elie Wiesel reflects on his literary legacy
November 13, 2012
Elie Wiesel speaks at the Symphony Center about a life of tragedy, triumph, and Goethe.
Author and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel described his reliance on storytelling as "the single theme that underlies all my work."
At 84, Elie Wiesel reflects on his literary legacy
By Jon Catlin / November 13, 2012
Elie Wiesel speaks at the Symphony Center about a life of tragedy, triumph, and Goethe.
CSO Even Better at Beethoven’s Seventh
By John Lisovsky / November 13, 2012
If last May’s performance of Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony fell short of the Chicago Symphony’s standard, last Thursday’s performance of the same work was a revelation: Charles Dutoit, who enjoys a rapport with the orchestra matched only by Muti and Haitink, conducted the work without pauses between the movements, and the amount of drive the work gained as a result was stunning. Conductors normally pause between movements of pieces to permit (often elderly) audience members to cough, a slightly artificial practice, as applause is permitted only at the end of the final movement. Dutoit demonstrated the aesthetic impact writ large of...
 
Logan’s black box theater lights up with youthful glow
By Will Dart / November 9, 2012
This Is Our Youth, the latest production from UT/TAPS, proves that time doesn't change everything.
Lincoln (Daniel Day-Lewis) has a hat as tall as this film is long.
Spielberg logs Lincoln in biopic
By Paola Cardona / November 9, 2012
Daniel Day-Lewis's transcendent performance as the 16th president of the United States leads the resonant (and relevant) film.
Basbaum’s sparse exhibit is touch-and-go
By Thomas Choi / November 9, 2012
Ricardo Basbaum's “Would you like to participate in an artistic experience?”—currently featured at the Logan Center—questions the space between art and audience.
Hunger Strike | Ramen to that
By Iliya Gutin / November 9, 2012
Don't let the fancy appetizers distract you: Slurping Turtle is ramen heaven.
 
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / November 9, 2012
This weekend get your Joyce on, view the making of a semi-improvised television classic, and stock up on some classy knickknacks.
In Philharmonia performance of Beethoven and Berlioz, conductor’s personality is manifest
By John Lisovsky / November 8, 2012
Conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen's excitement for the symphonies at hand elevated the night's performances.
 
Sleigh Bells ring, Mandel’s listening
By Tori Borengasser / November 6, 2012
The joys of the holiday season came early with MAB's sleigh-drawn show.
 
RZA’s martial arts homage, beaten to a pulp fiction
By Daniel Rivera / November 6, 2012
There will be blood, brothels, and a roguish Russell Crowe in The Man with the Iron Fists.
Marathon Frotcast at Doc
By James Mackenzie / November 6, 2012
The men of FilmDrunk Frotcast, a podcast that delivers movie news and hilarity, pick apart Schwarzenegger flick at Doc.
 
Asteroids Galaxy Tour was feelin’ electrogroovy at Bottom Lounge
By Will Dart / November 6, 2012
Asteroids Galaxy Tour's concert soars into the Chicago stratosphere.
 
Logan’s walls are worth a thousand words
By Janey Lee / November 2, 2012
The Logan Center's newest exhibit, Wall Text, channels an artistic dialogue that is accessible to art lovers of every ilk.
Erik (Thure Lindhardt) channels a vampiric Alexander Skarsgård, in a scene with his lover Paul (Zachary Booth).
A long-term relationship gets high exposure in Keep the Lights On
By Jordan Larson / November 2, 2012
Steeped in reality, Ira Sachs's latest film is a brutally honest rumination on a deteriorating relationship.
Bacchus (Douglas Hara) brown bags his drink of choice while chilling poolside with a mortal (Anjali Bhimani).
At Lookingglass, millenia-old story’s still got the muse
By Eliza Brown / November 2, 2012
For its 25th anniversary, Metamorphoses revisits the Lookingglass stage to captivating and nuanced effect.
Cat Power outage at Vic Theatre
By Lily Gordon / November 2, 2012
Indie darling Cat Power struggled through sickness and more for an inconsistent performance at the Vic.
 
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / November 2, 2012
This weekend dance with Carmen Maranda, win a trip to Park City, Utah, and stuff your face with as much pie as Hyde Park has to offer.
 
Logan’s a cabaret, old chum, come see the artists play
By Sarah Tarabey / October 30, 2012
At Logan, an evening of student poetry and music worthy of Liza.
 
Mischief Night pours some sugar and PBR on HPAC
By Alice Bucknell / October 30, 2012
Artists trick and treat audiences to pubic chest shaving, drunken karaoke, and more at the Hyde Park Art Center.
 
Cloud Atlas charts new territory with expansive film adaptation
By Angela Qian / October 30, 2012
In Cloud Atlas Hanks, Berry, and Sturgess travel to the post-apocalyptic future and back again, as reflected in the film's run-time.
 
Chicago’s vegan scene, from omegacado to umeboshi
By Lily Gordon / October 30, 2012
The dish on this city's most nutritious and delicious vegan food, none of which can be found at student-run cafés.
 
At CSO, riveting performance of obscure Beethoven mass
By John Lisovsky / October 30, 2012
Bernard Haitink brilliantly conducts underplayed masterpiece Missa solemnis.
 
Poetry’s myriad faces on exhibit at centennial retrospective
By John Gamino / October 25, 2012
The Poetry Foundation launches an exhibit to accompany its newly-released anthology, which was published in September by the University of Chicago Press.
 
Red alert: Swift’s latest falters, emphasizing her ungainly ascent
By Emma Broder / October 25, 2012
Taylor Swift's new album mixes her native tunes with big pop singles, to disenchanting results. Which sound will she choose?
Hunger Strike | Au Revoir, Oscar Mayer
By Iliya Gutin / October 25, 2012
If you're looking for high-brow yet greasy diner grub and aesthetically pleasing interior decor, Au Cheval is for you.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / October 25, 2012
This weekend shave someone's chest hair, get jiggy with the University Symphony Orchestra, and have a serious talk about circumcision.
 
McQueen’s art reigns over space, time, and the human body
By Alice Bucknell / October 23, 2012
Steve McQueen's new exhibit at the Art Institute has an eye for movement and drama.
 
Life without Hogwarts, warts and all
By Ayesha Wadhawan / October 22, 2012
Rowling attempts a melodramatic adult drama with too few tricks up her sleeve.
At Congress Theater, The xx doesn’t skip a beat
By Tori Borengasser / October 22, 2012
Romy, Oliver and Jamie give hypnotic performance to hyped crowd.
Chicago Manual of Style: The looking-into-other-people’s-home shopping network
By Anna Hill / October 22, 2012
Thanks to two U of C alums you can shop at home in other people's homes for your fashion favorites.
 
Sondheim production scores points with hat tricks
By Eliza Brown / October 19, 2012
Chicago Shakespeare Company's staging of Sondheim musical Sunday in the Park with George isn't pointless, it's pointillist.
 
Ware’s DIY graphic novel comes stacked with stories
By Jennifer Chukwu / October 19, 2012
Chris Ware's Building Stories depicts life in a three-story Chicago apartment. Sound familiar?
 
U of C student moves away from the YA in Steppenwolf’s The Book Thief
By Emma Broder / October 19, 2012
Third-year Rae Gray discusses her starring role in Steppenwolf's new production and the upside of mortality.
Carrabba confessional: Early aughts pop star on life after Dashboard
By Lily Gordon / October 19, 2012
The Maroon catches up Chris Carrabba to discuss his new album and the recent reconciliation of his band Further Seems Forever.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / October 19, 2012
This weekend watch costume theater, sing about food as you eat food, and crush grapes the right way.
Mike (Keith Kupferer) and Kate (Alana Arenas) only seem protected from the pitfalls of fate in this cushy, linear living area. 
Steppenwolf stages class act with Good People
By Spencer McAvoy / October 16, 2012
Good people live tough in this new production of David Lindsay-Abaire's resonant play.
Logan Launch Festival elevates Chicago’s art scene
By Michelle Lee / October 16, 2012
The Logan Center showcased everything arts at its Launch Festival.
From the Schubas stage, the flip side of Nicki Bluhm
By Lily Gordon / October 16, 2012
Nicki Bluhm goes vinyl and viral.
HPAC saddles up for new artists-in-residency exhibit
By Lauren Gurley / October 16, 2012
At HPAC, a horse is a course, of course.
 
Seven Psychopaths, one egomaniacal director
By Daniel Rivera / October 16, 2012
McDonagh's new film offers a stellar cast, but crumbles under the male gaze.
Beach House rides a surf of sound at the Riviera
By Tori Borengasser / October 16, 2012
Delicate, dreamy melodies pack a punch in the live.
 
East blends with West in Smart Museum’s palette of prints
By Scotty Campbell / October 12, 2012
The flow of cross-cultural influence through art makes for a dynamic and lasting exhibit.
 
Time gets thrown for a loop in Johnson’s smart sci-fi thriller
By Angela Qian / October 12, 2012
Twists, turns, and and a bevy of excitement in Hollywood's latest futuristic yarn, this time starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Bruce Willis.
 
For artist Peter Karklins, controlled chaos comes naturally
By Anna Hill / October 12, 2012
Artist embraces huge concepts on small canvases in the DePaul Art Museum.
Hunger Strike | Belly flop
By Iliya Gutin / October 12, 2012
If equal parts greasy and delicious is what you want in your Korean fusion, look elsewhere than Belly Q.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / October 12, 2012
This weekend bike for booze, launch Logan, and fall in love with Sandra Lee all over again.
 
More than just math problems: UT stages ‘Proof’
By Emily Hatch / October 9, 2012
An unbalanced U of C math professor makes things complicated for his daughter.
 
High school heroes blossom in Chbosky’s film adaptation
By Sarah Morell / October 9, 2012
The protagonist, Charlie, says, "We accept the love we think we deserve."
 
At Goodman Theatre, a simple trick of fate
By Eliza Brown / October 9, 2012
The Goodman Theatre stages Tennessee Williams's play, in which an aging actress and an aspiring actor grapple with the fleeting power that sexuality affords.
Chicago Manual of Style: The thrill of the thrift
By Anna Hill / October 9, 2012
One person's trash is another person's trench coat.
The Woman in White, the audience in blankets
By Ana Klimchynskaya / October 9, 2012
A Victorian mystery novel gets adapted for the Lifeline Theatre stage.
 
Danh Vo puts the ‘u’ and ‘us’ in Uterus
By Alice Bucknell / October 5, 2012
Renaissance Society displays several seemingly unrelated objects, while Lady Liberty graces campus bit by bit.
 
Rookie hits home run for young, fashionable feminists
By Jordan Larson / October 5, 2012
The popular online magazine, started by teen prodigy Tavi Gevinson, celebrates its first anniversary.
 
After dark, Grizzly Bear is easy like Sunday morning
By Scotty Campbell / October 5, 2012
Grizzly Bear brings jazzy comfort to their Indie rock show at the Riviera.
At Harris Theater, Lebowitz’s politics take no prisoners
By Alexandra McInnis / October 5, 2012
The gloves come off when Fran Lebowitz brings her cultural criticism to the political arena.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / October 5, 2012
This weekend listen to classical music instead of getting drunk, live the pug life, and get drunk.
O-Issue 2012: Chicago cinema
By Jordan Larson / September 26, 2012
Movies aren’t just filmed in Chicago, we have silver screens, too
O-Issue 2012: Chicago Art
By Alice Bucknell / September 26, 2012
From Anish Kapoor’s iconic Cloud Gate sculpture in Millennium Park to Frank Lloyd Wright’s Robie House nestled in our very own neighborhood, the city of Chicago boasts an artistic richness that is tough to top. Hailed as the birthplace of the modern skyscraper, Chicago also bears a long relationship with surrealism, a reputation that the Chicago Imagists group helped to establish throughout the late ’60s and ’70s. From Edward Gorey’s eerie etched figures to Lorado Taft’s dynamic figurative sculptures (catch a glimpse of his famed Fountain of Time just west of the Midway), it goes without saying that Chicago’s homegrown artwork is just as...
O-Issue 2012: Chicago Theater
By Jordan Larson / September 26, 2012
Home to literally hundreds of theater companies, Chicago is regarded as one of the best theater scenes in the world. This is the home of improv troupe Second City, which birthed stars John Belushi, Tina Fey, and Amy Poehler, and is the only city in the nation to have five theaters receive regional Tony awards. Chicago theater has a vast array of styles to choose from, ranging from sketch improv to Broadway shows and ensemble-led features. In addition to the flashing marquees and Tony-award winning plays, small independent theaters are tucked into every neighborhood in town, and you can find...
 
O-Issue 2012: Inside Logan Center for the Arts
By Sharan Shetty / September 26, 2012
The recently completed Logan Center comes equipped with dazzling resources and creative promises
 
O-Issue 2012: Campus art
By Jordan Larson / September 26, 2012
Even the museums here are Smart
 
O-Issue 2012: Campus a cappella
By Sharan Shetty / September 26, 2012
There’s more behind the clever names
 
O-Issue 2012: Campus music
By Joy Crane / September 26, 2012
From broadcasting to bands, there’s something for all musicians
 
O-Issue 2012: Campus theater
By Daniel Rivera / September 26, 2012
Never in my life have I been a “theater kid.” I don’t get the jokes, I haven’t read much Shakespeare, and I pride myself on having never sat through an episode of Glee. The stage is cool and all but, in my opinion, it would never measure up to the magic of the silver screen. So I guess I was asking for a rude awakening when I nearly wrote off the U of C’s campus theater scene before even giving it a fair shot. But luckily for me, O-Week happened. I found myself in the audience for a show by...
The plush red chairs in Doc Films's Max Palevsky Theater.
O-Issue 2012: Campus cinema
By Hannah Gold / September 26, 2012
What’s up, Doc?
O-Issue 2012: Libraries
By Alice Bucknell / September 23, 2012
For the studious, the curious, and those who have miles (and three essays) to go before they sleep.
O-Issue 2012: Bookstores
By Emma Broder / September 23, 2012
When an 8 million volume library system just won’t cut it.
 
Sofcore, Hard Covers
By Emma Broder / May 25, 2012
Reading what you want? It's a foreign concept at our school and sudden freedom can be overwhelming. Luckily a few Arts reporters have pared down the choices for you with three very different recommendations.
 
I know what you’ll watch this summer
By Daniel Rivera / May 25, 2012
Summer films to whet every cinematic appetite.
Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros get to the point
By Lily Gordon / May 25, 2012
The Maroon chats with Alex Ebert of Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros.
 
MCA revisits its beginnings
By Morgan McCarty / May 25, 2012
The Museum of Contemporary Arts celebrates its origins with new retrospective exhibit.
 
(500) docents of summer: upcoming gallery openings
By Anna Hill / May 25, 2012
Cool art galleries to check out this summer.
 
Wet hot intoxicated summer
By Andrew Green / May 25, 2012
Fun homemade cocktails to make this summer.
A Pitchfork in the road:four alternative festivals
By Anastasia Golovashkina / May 25, 2012
Think outside of Lolla and Pitchfork this summer.
Cannon Fodder | Hope I get old before I die
By Peter Ianakiev / May 25, 2012
Rock music's eternal adolescence has become too much for our wizened correspondent.
 
Summer Breeze 2012
By Johnny Hung / May 22, 2012
Scenes from this year's Summer Breeze concert.
 
Rhyme and little reason: Ludacris spurs crowd to act a fool
By Tomi Obaro / May 22, 2012
A review of this year's Summer Breeze concert.
 
Comics conference explores the brainier side of cartoons
By Arman Sayani / May 22, 2012
Notable comic artists took part in "Comics: Philosophy and Practice," a three-day conference held in Logan Arts Center this past weekend.
 
In ‘Sound of My Voice,’ maturity of young filmmaker resonates
By Daniel Rivera / May 22, 2012
Brit Marling's latest film cements the indie auteur's growing talent.
 
No more California dreaming in Best Coast’s new album
By Alice Bucknell / May 22, 2012
New Best Coast album is a polished, more mature work.
Variety of bands play at WHPK
By Scotty Campbell / May 22, 2012
Independent bands get to play their songs at WHPK's Summer Breeze soundstage.
Enthusiastic conductor leads CSO in speedy concert
By John Lisovsky / May 22, 2012
Dutch conductor Jaap van Zweden guest-conducted the Chicago Symphony Orchestra this past Wednesday.
 
Hot off the University of Chicago Press
By Hannah Gold / May 18, 2012
Arts editors and staff review books that have recently been published or distributed by the U of C Press.
 
Love of the ‘Loveless’ reissue
By Peter Ianakiev / May 18, 2012
An ode to My Bloody Valentine's classic early '90s album.
 
At Schubas Tavern, the perks of being a discerning hipster
By Eliana Polimeni / May 18, 2012
Little-known indie pop band Allo Darlin' marry ukelele skills with sensitive lyrics.
Hunger Strike | Good doggy
By Iliya Gutin / May 18, 2012
Ice cream, froyo, soft serve, y'all best watch your backs.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / May 18, 2012
This week get buzzed on mini gulf, eat endless crawfish, and crash Summer Breeze.
 
Eclectic dance styles at RBIM’s annual show
By Angela Qian / May 14, 2012
Rhythmic Bodies in Motion had their annual showcase this past Saturday and Sunday in Mandel Hall.
 
A Gothic revival deadened by contemporary tropes
By Anastasia Golovashkina / May 14, 2012
Tim Burton and Johnny Depp's latest collaboration is strangely lackluster.
CSO shines with Ton Koopman and the mid-18th century
By John Lisovsky / May 14, 2012
Ton Koopman conducted "Mozart & Beethoven at the Chicago Symphony Orchestra this past Saturday.
Chicago Manual of Style | Dress your fest
By Anna Hill / May 14, 2012
Ah, the joys of music festival season: Painted faces, questionably-bathed bodies clad in half-shirts and fringe, manktops and feathers as far as the eye can see. There’s no question that music fest fashion is a little outrageous, most notably on the part of the audience. But even though glittered-up showgoers usually draw more sartorial attention than the performers, the acts scheduled to appear at Summer Breeze this weekend promise to provide some interesting looks themselves. As we begin to plan our own outfits (come on, you’ve thought about it), let’s take a look at what to expect from the stage....
 
Lauded author Michael Ondaatje equally adept at poetry and prose
By Emma Broder / May 11, 2012
The award-winning 'English Patient' author gave a reading this past Monday.
 
At Reggie’s, half a hip hop crew make do
By Will Sims / May 11, 2012
ScHoolboy Q and Ab-Soul of Los Angeles rap group Black Hippy performed at Reggie's Music Joint last Tuesday.
 
Cannon Fodder | High art comes down to ‘The Wire’
By Peter Ianakiev / May 11, 2012
TV shows like 'The Wire' are considered great, but can television really be part of the canon?
 
English department casts verdict, doesn’t object to TV’s best
By Alexandra McInnis / May 11, 2012
New English department panel series analyzes critically-acclaimed TV shows.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / May 11, 2012
Fun stuff this weekend, with a bonus Mother's Day tip.
 
FOTA launches an exposé of high heels and high art
By Eliana Polimeni / May 8, 2012
In the upcoming days, The Festival of the Arts will expose the artistic talent of the student body.
 
Movie May-hem: a preview of this month’s upcoming films
By Daniel Rivera / May 8, 2012
From 'The Avengers' to the revenge of Will Smith's career, exciting new flicks are in store for spring.
 
‘The Iceman Cometh,’ bearing cold comfort
By Gabriel Kalcheim / May 8, 2012
O'Neill's sometimes sobering tale of dreams and drinking problems comes to the Goodman.
 
A mystery, wrapped in an enigma, that starts with Friday
By Noah Weiland / May 8, 2012
Alluring Canadian R&B artist "The Weeknd" performs at Chicago's Lincoln Hall.
Scotty Does Know
By Scotty Campbell / May 8, 2012
A new wave in acoustics.
 
Hyde Park Art Center’s “Hairy Blob” has split ends
By Alice Bucknell / May 4, 2012
While "Hairy Blob" at the Hyde Park Arts Center is built around an interesting concept, the exhibit as a whole is characterized by a distracting disconnect among the individual pieces.
 
Ron Silliman discusses legacy of lyric endurance
By Emma Broder / May 4, 2012
The Maroon talked with Ron Silliman about blogs, beginnings, and encyclopedic ambitions
Tarn’s analytic approach to lyric poetry yields hopeful results
By Alexandra McInnis / May 4, 2012
Nathaniel Tarn epitomizes the image we all have of a Cambridge-educated scholar; he is eloquent, dapper, and has that dry, yet biting, wit. However, in a Tuesday talk given by the esteemed poet, translator, editor, anthropologist, and University of Chicago alum, Tarn revealed himself to be a true polymath. His first lecture in 30 years, “On Poetic Production: The Embattled Lyric and the Topology of Hope,” drew on multiple areas of knowledge, ranging from anthropology to sociology to neurology. “I believe that poetry is the purest incarnation of hope because of its solitude and lack of consequence,” Tarn declared to...
Hunger Strike | A pie in the house of love
By Iliya Gutin / May 4, 2012
Maybe coming here on 4/20 and ordering over half the menu sent mixed messages. Maybe vibing to the beats of British reggae coming through the speakers gave the wrong impression. Maybe my hoodie and beard scruff did not exactly convey an aura of “reputable gentleman.” But then again, maybe pies weren’t the only things getting baked in Pleasant House Bakery’s kitchen. Let me backtrack for a second. A quaint, little pie shop on a quiet corner in Bridgeport; it’s a tiny British oasis in this working-class Mexican/Chinese industrial district square in the middle of Chicago. The exterior proudly boasts “nothing...
Do what you’re told
By Hannah Gold / May 4, 2012
This weekend, good luck choosing between a mint julep and a margarita.
 
Graphic artist’s new exhibit is something to watch out for
By Arman Sayani / May 1, 2012
Cartoonist Alice Bechdel gets a retrospective at the Center for Gender and Race Studies.
 
Singer-songwriter shares thoughts on literary namesake, musical influences
By Lily Gordon / May 1, 2012
The Maroon spoke with folk songwriter Anais Mitchell.
 
Mediocre production can’t compensate for ‘Teseo’s dull plot
By John Lisovsky / May 1, 2012
Chicago Opera Theater's production of 'Teseo' leaves much to be desired.
 
When trouble calls, ‘The Receptionist’ picks up
By Anna Hill / May 1, 2012
Steep Theatre's production of 'The Receptionist' is a well-acted, though uneven play.
Love among the nuptial ruins
By Alexandra McInnis / May 1, 2012
Marguerite Duras's play 'La Musica' gets a claustrophobic interpretation at the Alliance Francaise.
 
At Logan, a theatrical method to an artist’s madness
By Hannah Gold / April 27, 2012
University Theater stages the world premiere of an adaptation of Stanislavski's book on how to act, "An Actor Prepares."
Jack White in blue. 
Jack White goes solo with new genre-bending album
By Tomi Obaro / April 27, 2012
Jack White's excellent new solo album "Blunderbuss" combines all the key elements of his old mystique.
Fourth-years Jessen O'Brian and Steffi Carter fight to the death in Beowulf. 
With fire and water, “Beowulf” wages war in Hutch Courtyard
By Charna Albert / April 27, 2012
The Classical Entertainment Society, along with the Dance Council and members of Le Vorris & Vox circus put on a fiery production of "Beowulf" in Hutch Courtyard.
Undergrads read winning pieces on Windy City
By Emma Broder / April 27, 2012
Despite the gloom Wednesday’s weather cast on the city, the Performance Penthouse in Logan Center was aglow for a reading by the three winners of the Undergraduate Writing About Chicago contest, fourth-year Michael Lipkowitz, third-year Naseem Jamnia, and fourth-year Caroline O’Donovan. Introducing the winners, David Hays, an assistant director at the University Community Service Center, said they had been chosen from dozens of entrants. A whiteboard behind the podium read, “Where are the lights?” It could have been a line of poetry, or an honest question. When someone erased the board just before the beginning of the reading, the audience...
Do what you’re told
By Hannah Gold / April 27, 2012
This weekend, celebrate Earth Day, eat some fancy cheese, and listen to the music from the time of Jane Austen.
 
Canon Fodder
By Peter Ianakiev / April 27, 2012
Perceptions of iconic bands may skew the opinions of first time listeners.
 
Multicultural Greek life stomps the quad at annual show
By Lily Gordon / April 24, 2012
A number of minority students participate in multicultural Greek life.
 
Hollywood plot distracts from accomplishments of Burmese activist
By Cam Bauchner / April 24, 2012
New biopic doesn'
 
Historical exhibit commemorates Chinatown centennial
By Angela Qian / April 24, 2012
Chinatown celebrates its centennial with a new exhibit at the Chinese-American Museum.
 
Scotty does know | A little (cheap) night music
By Scotty Campbell / April 24, 2012
Music may be the universal language, but it doesn’t all cost the same. Sometimes it’s a few bucks for an iTunes album, blasting out of $10 headphones in a runner’s ears. Sometimes it’s 300 dollars for a ticket to sit before an ornate stage where Natalie Dessay may or may not be desecrating Verdi (this past weekend the noted soprano dropped out of a La Traviata production due to a cold). That’s a pretty black-and-white view of it, of course. Upscale New Yorkers at the Met may have a beloved pair of earbuds under their pillows; everyone knows the difference...
 
Chicago Manual of Style | From hairline to hemline
By Anna Hill / April 24, 2012
The worst fashion statement from the '80s is making a (surprisingly) trendy comeback.
 
Death Cab gives you a reason to stay
By Lindsay Warren / April 24, 2012
Death Cab for Cutie puts on a good show at the Chicago Theatre.
 
RSO Spotlight: PhiNix Dance Crew
By Angela Qian / April 20, 2012
PhiNix Dance Crew, founded only three years ago, gears up for its first-ever dance showcase.
 
Civil War drama at Steppenwolf covers scorched ground
By Alice Bucknell / April 20, 2012
As General Sherman marches his Union troops through Georgia and the Carolinas, a moving historical drama unfolds.
Frank-ly my dear, I don’t give a dawg
By Iliya Gutin / April 20, 2012
Franks 'n Dogs in Lincoln Park serves designer hot dogs, but at a price.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / April 20, 2012
This weekend attend a political roast, design a T-shirt, and picnic to save the world.
Chicago Opera Theater puts on intimate Shostakovitch revival
By John Lisovsky / April 20, 2012
At the COT, a light-hearted treatment of Moscow, Cheryomushki, a Shostakovitch operetta from the '50s.
 
Court Theatre stages America’s demons with ‘Angels’
By Angela Qian / April 17, 2012
Kushner's epic dramatization of America anguish comes to the South Side.
 
Documentary highlights 70 years of raw ambition
By Daniel Rivera / April 17, 2012
Jiro Dreams of Sushi gives foodies and film buffs plenty to chew on.
 
A family that rhymes together stays together
By Emma Broder / April 17, 2012
The Dark Room Collective, a group of prominent African American poets, reunite at the Poetry Foundation.
 
Ingrid Michaelson makes best fans forever
By Eliana Polimeni / April 17, 2012
Ingrid Micahaelson performs at Vic Theater to an adoring crowd.
How to succeed in video blogging without really trying
By Anastasia Golovashkina / April 17, 2012
YouTube spreads its viral culture by tapping into the market.
Dutoit’s interpretation of French classic leaves audience breathless
By James Stone / April 17, 2012
The CSO wraps up a whirlwind week of stellar productions with an homage to French composers.
 
CIMMFest rebels against established spheres of media
By Eliana Polimeni / April 13, 2012
Chicago International Movies and Music Festival blurs the line between two distinct artistic mediums..
Little-known surrealist finally gets a room of his own
April 13, 2012
Jindrich Heisler, surrealist painter, gets his first retrospective at the Art Institute.
 
Little-known surrealist finally gets a room of his own
By Alexandra McInnis / April 13, 2012
Jindrich Heisler, surrealist painter, gets his first retrospective at the Art Institute.
Temple rerun at the Oriental Institute
By Anna Hill / April 13, 2012
Upon entering the Special Exhibitions gallery of the Oriental Institute, one might expect that the new exhibit, Picturing the Past: Imaging and Imagining the Ancient Middle East simply adds volume to the impressive collection of artistic, historical, and archaeological objects already on display in the handsome museum. However, progress a bit further into the compact space, and it becomes apparent that this exhibit presents the ancient Middle East in a noticeably different (and refreshingly multi-faceted) light. Rather than merely displaying artifacts, Picturing the Past focuses on the selective and highly interpretive nature of methods of recording, documenting, and recreating aspects...
Fiction on tap: New lit series debuts at Jimmy’s
By Emma Broder / April 13, 2012
A handful of Hyde Parkers gathered in a back room of Jimmy’s Woodlawn Tap on Tuesday to hear the work of Adam Levin and Sarah Levine, two Chicago writers who teach in the Art Institute’s writing program. Levin’s Hot Pink, a short story collection, came out early last month, and Levine’s novel Treasure Island!!! was released at the end of 2011. Levine—small, bespectacled, and clad in black—read for 10 or 15 minutes. Treasure Island!!! is about a young woman who, after reading Robert Louis Stevenson’s similarly-titled novel (no exclamation points), realizes that she needs to take control of her life....
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / April 13, 2012
Friday | April 13 Who doesn’t love a premature tax return, especially when it includes crispy strips of pig fat? In celebration of the IRS tax-filing deadline (April 17, a joyous occasion), Oscar Meyer is handing out free samples of their beloved Butcher Thick Cut Bacon at two downtown locations. If you didn’t bring home the bacon yesterday or Wednesday, then today is your last chance! 300 South Wacker Drive. 11:30 a.m., free; 210 South Canal Street (at Jackson). 4:30 p.m., free. Celebrate the centennial of experimental American composer John Cage, famous for his avant-garde pieces like “4’33’’”—4 minutes and...
Beats & Pieces creates “Legacies” of sights and sounds
By Alice Bucknell / April 10, 2012
Cables and wires coiled around bare feet, bright lights of glittering machinery, and rows of a mesmerized audience, wooed into a silent sway by hypnotic wailing vocals, graced the first floor of the Southside Hub of Production on Thursday night as part of Beats & Pieces’ Legacies exhibition. Electroacoustic artist K. Serra opened the evening lineup with a moody, ethereal style that fused her classical training as an opera-singer-to-be with her later interests in electronic sound. The lights quickly dimmed as a ghostly background beat filled the room. The artist created loops one after the next using unconventional “instruments” such...
 
Iceberg straight ahead: Iconic ship hits new dimension
By Daniel Rivera / April 10, 2012
In its new 3D incarnation, "Titanic" is still going on and on and on.
 
Spring awakening: This season’s musical high notes
By Scotty Campbell / April 10, 2012
Music to check out this spring.
Artist and RH bursts out of housing bubble
By Emma Broder / April 10, 2012
The Chicago Maroon talked to Charles McGhee-Hasserick, a community artist and RH in South Campus, about his work.
Chicago Symphony Orchestra concert showcases Strauss
By John Lisovsky / April 10, 2012
Duitot conducts three special performances of Strauss at the CSO.
 
At Max Palevsky cinema, girls gone mild
By Hannah Gold / April 10, 2012
"Girls," the new show on HBO, is not a Sex and the City for the younger crowd.
 
Prime time for rhyme: Poetry Month with 57th St. Books
By Emma Broder / April 6, 2012
In honor of National Poetry Month, 57th Street Books tells us what poets to check out.
 
Hot Pink Mess: Minaj’s latest album lacks focus
By Tomi Obaro / April 6, 2012
Nicki tries to please everybody, and loses everyone.
 
Mummies, superheroes, and Taylor Lautner, oh my!
By Daniel Rivera / April 6, 2012
Hollywood’s latest happenings.
 
James may not be Meyer, but chains and whips excite her
By Lindsay Warren / April 6, 2012
What began as Twilight fanfiction ends up an erotic bestseller.
Do What You’re Told
By Hannah Gold / April 6, 2012
Fun stuff to do this weekend.
Hunger Strike | A Lure Awakening
By Iliya Gutin / April 6, 2012
Sure, first year, going to Chinatown is all fun and games, an exciting and exotic (albeit University imposed) diversion on a Saturday night; “Oooo, Taro root! The soup is IN the dumplings?! What wizardry is this?!” Second year, it’s more of a practical convenience; “I have $8 to my name and downtown is like in a different time zone.” By third year, it’s kind of like, “Fuck it. I don’t care. Food is food.” And fourth year… well I really hope it doesn’t have to come to that. So yeah, in case you haven’t noticed, I’m more jaded about the...
 
“Mirror, Mirror” is the fairest flop of them all
By Daniel Rivera / April 3, 2012
"Mirror, Mirror" does its best to ruin a fairytale classic.
 
From “Gossip” to gaga: Taylor Momsen gets a new gig
By Anastasia Golovashkina / April 3, 2012
The MAROON interviewed former "Gossip Girl," current rock star Taylor Momsen
 
The unbearable lightness of Andrew Bird
By Scotty Campbell / April 3, 2012
Andrew Bird's folksy new album makes us feel the warmth of spring.
Leukemia awareness concert channels YouTube
By Angela Qian / April 3, 2012
Fraternity lends a helping hand to a good cause through a YouTube benefit concert.
The Reva and David Logan Center for the Arts aims to consolidate the arts on campus.
Edifice complex: Logan Center draws mixed reactions
By Alice Bucknell / March 30, 2012
UofC students respond to the unveiling of the Reva and David Logan Center for the Arts.
Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss Everdeen goes in for the kill in The Hunger Games.
Hunger Games more than satisfies audience’s appetite
By Eliza Brown / March 30, 2012
Hunger Games is bound to thrill fans of the dystopian tween series.
Although Mad Men’s viewership has modestly increased since its 2007 premiere, its media coverage has skyrocketed.
Media darling sells America style and substance, but not everyone’s buying
By Tomi Obaro / March 30, 2012
The public likes Don Draper's smoke in its face.
Do What You’re Told: 3/30/12-4/01/12
By Hannah Gold / March 30, 2012
This weekend learn about O'Hare, turn off your lights, and take a ride on the liar side.
Paralytic Stalks is the 11th full-length studio album by psychedelic pop group, of Montreal.
Of Montreal skips familiar beats at Metro concert
By Scotty Campbell / March 30, 2012
At Metro concert, of Montreal sings too many songs off their new album to win over longtime fans.
Company members give birth to a new type of theatrical beast. 
Cryptic triptych at MCA
By Eric Shoemaker / March 30, 2012
Teatr Zar draws on wide influence to create disjointed Triptych.
 
All of the (neon) lights: Portrait of ’80s reveals turbulence of a decade
By Anna Hill / March 6, 2012
"This Will Have Been: Art, Love, and Politics in the 1980s" explores the darker side of a decade.
Nancy Andria, Colleen Werle, and Karen Hoyer give birth to the next tyrannical politician.
Theatre Zarko’s new production is thin on plot, thick on puppets
By Eliza Brown / March 6, 2012
"He Who" uses puppets, Latin chanting, and eerie music to explore the patriarchal structure of modern society.
Claude Cahun depicts herself as a mime in self-portrait
Entre who? French artist probes identity
By Alice Bucknell / March 6, 2012
Claude Cahun's first retrospective exhibit in the U.S explores the distance between artist and viewer.
The rise and fall of waist and hem
By Jessen O’Brien / March 6, 2012
Absurd legwear trends, from bell bottoms to overalls.
 
If Shakespeare be a labor of love, play on
By Sarah Miller / March 2, 2012
Dean's Men and UT 'Twelfth Night' collaboration promises music, comedy, and military fatigues.
 
Predictability keeps ‘Wanderlust’ stuck on the ground
By Daniel Rivera / March 2, 2012
Even nudity can't save this movie.
Chicago Manual of Style | Fashion Week Roundup
By Anastasia Golovashkina / March 2, 2012
Everything you wanted to know about Fashion Week and more.
 
MODA in photos
By Kate Chiu / February 28, 2012
Slideshow of MODA's 2012 Spring Fashion Show.
 
At Union Station, fashion’s on schedule
By Anna Hill / February 28, 2012
MODA show was a success, despite some awkward walks and hastily-sewn designs.
 
Hollywood’s biggest night makes cameo in dorms
By Eliana Polimeni / February 28, 2012
Dorms celebrate the Oscars with annual swanky party.
 
UBallet performs lesser-known ‘La Bayadere’ to great success
By Alexandra McInnis / February 28, 2012
UBallet's performed 'La Bayadere' at Mandel Hall this past Saturday and Sunday.
 
Folk duo turns Mandel Hall into a cozy, intimate setting
By Emma Broder / February 28, 2012
Indie folk band played Mandel Hall as part of Artspeaks.
 
Academy awards stick to routine
By Jake Walerius / February 28, 2012
Magic of the movies lost within safe, routine Oscar ceremony.
SHop exhibit explores line between home and museum
By Alice Bucknell / February 28, 2012
As SHoP
 
Brotherly love takes a tumble in ‘True West’
By Eric Shoemaker / February 24, 2012
Two brothers duke it out in UT's 'True West.'
 
The Dog days have just begun
By Lily Gordon / February 24, 2012
Indie rock band Dr. Dog played to an enthusiastic crowd at The Vic.
 
Rice’s latest novel has bark but no bite
By Angela Qian / February 24, 2012
Though a departure from her usual subjects, Anne Rice's 'The Wolf Gift' is nothing new.
Hunger Strike | Now that’s what I call meat!
By Iliya Gutin / February 24, 2012
Publican Quality Meats, part grocer
Artist uses computer sculpture to create music
By Scotty Campbell / February 24, 2012
The strange sounds emanating from the belly of the Reg Tuesday afternoon were not, for once, the groans of overworked students, but instead the music of composer, sound artist, and sculptor Howard Sandroff. The founder and current director of the University of Chicago’s Computer Music Studio was giving a performance to show off his latest untitled “sound sculpture,” an ungainly and somewhat unsightly work of art consisting of two sheets of hammered low-carbon steel, skewered through with metal spikes. The performance, as unusual as the featured sculpture, was held in conjunction with the opening of an exhibit, The Music of...
 
Uncommon Interview: Reggie Watts
By Noah Weiland / February 21, 2012
The Maroon interviews comedian Reggie Watts.
RSO Spotlight | Catcher in the Rhyme
By Sarah Miller / February 21, 2012
New RSO is the first slam poetry group on campus.
 
This means snore: Star cast can’t save cliche film
By Daniel Rivera / February 21, 2012
'This Means War' lacks character development, underuses cast.
Celtic punk band rocks Aragon
By Bradford Rogers / February 21, 2012
This weekend, Flogging Molly’s eighth annual Green 17 Tour brought the Celtic punk band to Chicago’s Aragon Ballroom. The band played a raucous set to a rambunctious crowd, making one thing clear: Whoever said you couldn’t play punk with an accordion, tin whistle, violin, banjo, mandolin, or acoustic guitar is a barefaced liar. For those unfamiliar with the band, Flogging Molly is perhaps most famous for their incorporation of traditional Irish instrumentation. Irish-born lead vocalist and acoustic guitarist Dave King founded the band in the midst of Los Angeles’s 1990s music scene. Bridget Regan, who plays fiddle and tin whistle...
 
Flogging Molly rocks hard, stays chill
By Anastasia Golovashkina / February 17, 2012
The Maroon chats with Celtic punk band Flogging Molly.
 
Fit for consumption: Everyone’s invited to ‘Feast’ at the Smart
By Alice Bucknell / February 17, 2012
Feast kicks off with a well-attended opening reception.
Meet the New Generation
By Lindsay Warren / February 17, 2012
Off-Off Campus newest members are ready to perform.
Princess Diana in a signature 1994 number. 
Chicago Manual of Style | The brief, wondrous life of the little black dress
By Jessen O’Brien / February 17, 2012
If you don't know what LBD stands for, you will after reading this.
Hunger Strike | Don’t be a paella hater
By Iliya Gutin / February 17, 2012
Vera's food ultimately doesn't deliver.
Reading showcases award-winning undergrads
By Angela Qian / February 17, 2012
Three fourth-years read excerpts of their award-winning creative work.
 
Four dramas and a chick flick: Five top V-Day films
By Tomi Obaro / February 14, 2012
Five romantic movies for a Valentine's Day marathon.
 
Maria Bavaro & Omar Castro
By Tomi Obaro / February 14, 2012
Dating for: 1 year, 4 months Years/Major: Omar: third-year Religious Studies major, Maria: second-year Psych major Favorite date movie: (almost) anything. They watch a lot of House together though… (Fill-in-the-blank) is a better dancer: Maria… Her hips don’t lie… Where did you meet: Outside of Maria’s room during O-Week; he gave her a care package from InterVarsity. First Date: Downtown. They ate at Bennigans, saw the Festival of Lights, then went to the movies to see Next Three Days. Favorite nicknames for each other: Maria calls Omar “Babe,” Omar calls Maria “mi amor.”
 
Martha Fahlgren & Gustavo Alvarez
By Tomi Obaro / February 14, 2012
Dating for: 4 years, 4 months Years/Majors: Gustavo: second-year Biology Pre-Med, Martha : second-year Psychology major Favorite date movie: Click (Fill-in-the-blank) is a better dancer: Definitely Gustavo, despite the fact that Martha has been dancing ballet for 17 years. (What can we say, his skills kill) Where did you meet: Freshman Honors Biology at Willowbrook High School Where was your first date: AMC Yorktown Cinema (Stereotypical, we know) Favorite nicknames for each other: They’re as sickeningly sweet as it gets; Gustavo often calls Martha “Baby Girl,” and Martha calls Gustavo “Babycakes”
 
Evan Garrett & Peter Jensen
By Tomi Obaro / February 14, 2012
Dating for: 8 months Year/major: Evan: fourth-year Theatre and Performance Studies major; Peter: fourth-year English major Favorite date movie: Ticked-Off Trannies with Knives, which we believe to be an underrated masterpiece (seriously, go see it). Evan falls asleep during every other movie we ever watch together. (Fill-in-the-blank) is a better dancer: Evan’s definitely the better dancer. But Peter is better at maths. Favorite quotes:  “Kiss well or don’t kiss at all,” “Stop biting” “You’re Evan Garrett-ing it” Where did you meet: Summer Breeze during our first year. We were introduced by mutual friends.  Peter was one of the first people...
Five Valentine’s Day dates that are OKCupid
By Jordan Larson / February 14, 2012
Date ideas for the too-cool-for-Valentine's-Day set.
DIY is your boo’s best friend
By Alice Bucknell / February 14, 2012
Cheap gifts for your sweetheart.
Put Love on Shuffle
By Lindsay Warren / February 14, 2012
Tunes to get you through Valentine's Day.
Graphic Writer Joe Sacco captures conflict with comic drawings
By Emma Broder / February 14, 2012
Joe Sacco, a graphic writer, talked about the art of comic book journalism as a Dedmon Writer-in-Residence.
‘Bittersweet’ leaves a bad taste
By Sarah Miller / February 14, 2012
Hyde Park Community Players' 'Bittersweet Love' is well-intentioned but could use a little work.
 
Though entertaining, Hollywood sentimentality brings down ‘The Grey’
By Cam Bauchner / February 7, 2012
Indecisive plot weakens the otherwise enjoyable 'The Grey.'
Lana Del Rey pouts on the cover of her new album 'Born to Die.'
Lana Del Rey is an easy target, but the hate’s unwarranted
By Daniel Rivera / February 7, 2012
Lana Del Rey epitomizes indie lifestyle shift to the mainstream.
Madonna halftime show: lots of material, little substance
By Anna Hill / February 7, 2012
Madonna's halftime show was a glitzy, ultimately forgettable spectacle.
Lyric captures grandeur of Verdi’s ‘Aida’
By Gabriel Kalcheim / February 7, 2012
Verdi’s Aida has, for more than a century, held a reputation as the definitive grandiose opera spectacle, fit with camels and elephants (no animals at the Lyric though, only a cast of marvelous human voices).  Indeed, one of the most remarkable things about Aida is its immense range of scale. Both the opening and close of the opera are extremely intimate. Yet in between are the large choruses at the pharaoh’s court (“Su dell Nilo” and “Gloria all Egitto”), in which it seems the entire opera company has been utilized to fill the stage. There are also two extensive ballet sequences,...
Spektral Quartet gives a lively performance of three radically different composers
By James Stone / February 7, 2012
Spektral Quartet's Saturday performance captures both introversion and extroversion in music.
 
RSO Spotlight | Korean Students Organization
By Tomi Obaro / February 3, 2012
The University's longest-running culture show graces the stage once again.
UT’s Weekend of Workshops is a theatrical grab bag
By Lindsay Warren / February 3, 2012
This year's batch of UT Weekend of Workshop is a theatrical potpurri.
 
Festival highlights Haiti on earthquake’s anniversary
By Alexandra Garfinkle / February 3, 2012
Haitian festival commemorates anniversary of the earthquake with art exhibits and dance.
‘Dark Play’ proves that all’s fair in love and cyberwar
By Eric Shoemaker / February 3, 2012
Collaboraction's latest play explores the darker dimensions of cyberspace.
Chicago Manual of Style | Fashion blogs bring couture to the masses
By Jessen O’Brien / February 3, 2012
Check out these blogs when you're in a fashion slump.
Ben Lerner lauds poetry’s possibilities
By Emma Broder / February 3, 2012
Ben Lerner reads from his body of work at "Poem Present."
 
‘SightSoundSpace’ brings together wider Chicago art community
By Alice Bucknell / January 31, 2012
FOTA's 'SightSoundSpace' gave students the opportunity to showcase their art off-campus.
USO brings star-crossed lovers to Mandel Hall
By Joey LoCasio / January 31, 2012
University Symphony Orchestra's winter quarter performance admirably combines three different interpretations of 'Romeo and Juliet.'
Sally Murphy, Randall Newsome, Francis Guinan, and Kristina Valada-Viars discuss war's repercussions in 'Time Stands Still'. 
War and peace: ‘Time Stands Still’ grapples with both
By Lily Gordon / January 31, 2012
Steppenwolf's 'Time Stands Still' garners powerful but unpolished performances.
Museum celebrates 25th anniversary with ‘Fiesta’
By Sarah Miller / January 31, 2012
In 'El Alma de La Fiesta,' the National Museum of Mexican Art covers over sixteen centuries of Mexican art and culture.
This cartoon map of the University's campus can be found in both the exhibit and the C-Shop.
Collegiate collectibles: Exhibit charts student history
By Tomi Obaro / January 27, 2012
The Regenstein's latest Special Collections exhibit showcases more than a century of student life.
Tamberla Perry, Geoffrey Owens, Marc Grapey, and Patrick Clear take on a tricky subject.
In Mamet’s ‘Race,’ nobody wins
By Gabriel Kalcheim / January 27, 2012
At the Goodman Theatre, David Mamet's 'Race' examines more than just skin color.
Thomas Horn, surrounded by posters of the missing, takes a moment of silence.
American fairytale exploits more than enchants
By Eliza Brown / January 27, 2012
'Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close' is mawkish with its use of 9/11.
Hunger Strike | For whom the belly tolls
By Iliya Gutin / January 27, 2012
Bill Kim's latest Belly venture is a hit.
In Philip Glass's 'Einstein on the Beach,' avant-garde is the norm. 
Glass opera lacks transparency; that’s the point
By Scotty Campbell / January 27, 2012
Philip Glass's revolutionary opera is performed for the first time in twenty years.
Teagle F. Bougere demands to be seen in Court Theatre’s Invisible Man.
Court shines light on ‘Invisible Man’
By Anna Hill / January 24, 2012
Court Theatre's 'Invisible Man,' successfully captures the spirit of Ellison's novel.
 
Echo & the Bunnymen play past midnight in Paris
By Colin Bradley / January 24, 2012
Maroon editors review Echo & the Bunnymen show in Paris.
Wilkes uses old mannequins, among other objects, in her work.  
Motley crew of objects can an exhibit make
By Alice Bucknell / January 24, 2012
In Cathy Wilkes's 'I Give You All My Money,' her pairing of disparate objects leave viewers to interpret the exhibit's meaning .
Esteemed professors get silly in Quad Club Revels
By Angela Qian / January 24, 2012
In Quad Club Revels, University staff and faculty lampoon community and university traditions.
First-year Tessa Weil poses at the Lascivious Ball at Ida Noyes last Saturday evening.
Lascivious Ball disrobes bookish stereotypes
By Alexandra McInnis / January 20, 2012
At the Lascivious Ball this past Saturday, students shed their inhibitions.
Papageno (Stephane Degout) and Pamina (Nicole Cabell) sing a little ditty.
Lyric’s ‘Magic’ stuck in the ’80s, but the flute plays on
By Scotty Campbell / January 20, 2012
In Lyric Opera's 'The Magic Flute,' an antiquated interpretation undermine great performances.
The kids are alright; the parents aren’t
By Philip Ehrenberg / January 20, 2012
In Roman Polanski's 'Carnage,' the parents do the damage.
 
It’s a foggy day for London
By Lily Gordon / January 20, 2012
Theophilus London's sold-out concert was shaky, but he shows promise.
TV’s top fashion trendsetters
By Jessen O’Brien / January 20, 2012
Some of TV's hit shows have influenced the fashion industry.
‘Forever 27’ pays tribute to artists who died too young
By Sarah Miller / January 20, 2012
At new Chicago Cultural Center exhibit, musicians who died too young, get a second chance.
‘Moving Forward’ exhibit offers hope to Japanese earthquake victims
By Sarah Miller / January 20, 2012
A new exhibit at Rockefeller Chapel shows progress after the devastating Japanese earthquake.
Dirk Diggler (Mark Wahlberg) shakes his groove thang in 'Boogie Nights.'
Winter Doldrums? Doc has the cure
By Tomi Obaro / January 13, 2012
This season of Doc is slated to be one of the best in its 75 year history.
Poet pair gives ‘couplet’ new meaning
By Emma Broder / January 13, 2012
Lauded poets-in-Residence Rosemarie and Keith Waldrop present excerpts of their work.
 
A girl grows in Brooklyn
By Cam Bauchner / January 13, 2012
Dee Rees's breakout film highlights the experiences of a black gay teenager growing up in Brooklyn.
Hunger Strike | A tale of two goats
By Iliya Gutin / January 13, 2012
Despite the critical acclaim of Stephanie Izard's restaurant, Birreria Zaragosa is the better 'goat.'
‘Text and Drugs and Rock & Roll’ fights the man
By Sarah Miller / January 10, 2012
At 'Text and Drugs and Rock & Roll,' street artists take on corporate America.
At MCA’s First Friday, hob nob with the young and fashionable
By Morgan McCarty / January 10, 2012
First Fridays offer museum goers an after dark perspective.
True story or tall tale? Either way, it fails
By Angela Qian / January 10, 2012
True Story has great tales but poor delivery.
‘Battle for Brooklyn’ shoots and scores
By Michaela Cross / January 10, 2012
'Battle for Brooklyn' offers a scathing look at the the process of building a new sports center for the Brooklyn Nets.
Suárez uses mixed media to create compelling images of the Latin American immigrant experience
Child’s play gets serious in Suárez’s Memoria
By Alice Bucknell / January 6, 2012
In Memoria, Bibliana Suárez uses the memory game to highlight the injustices of the Latin American immigrant experience in America.
Rooney Mara goes rogue as punked-out computer hacker in The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
The girl who saved The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
By Tomi Obaro / January 6, 2012
In David Fincher's adaption of the best-selling Swedish novel, Rooney Mara is the not-so-secret weapon.
From freezing to foxy
By Jessen O’Brien / January 5, 2012
Keep the blues away with bright colors, fun patterns, and cozy pieces that make you smile no matter how much it snows.
Top 5 Picks of 2011
By Jordan Larson / November 29, 2011
Check out our picks for the best (and worst) of 2011.
Soft core, hard covers
By Jordan Larson / November 29, 2011
Didion, Murakami, Eugenides and DeLillo are all waiting for you after finals.
‘Tis the season to be rat king
By Eric Shoemaker / November 29, 2011
House’s piece is an atmospheric tour-de-force, that gives us moments of both levity and menace.
From here to the end of the Weekend
By Cam Bauchner / November 29, 2011
Let this review be fervently dedicated to the performance of Michelle Williams because there is not much else to be revered in this picture. Williams’ portrayal of Marilyn Monroe is as close to the real thing as a viewer can come besides watching old clips from Some Like it Hot. Williams’ performance goes beyond the conventional sexiness of Monroe to convey both her lighter and more tortured sides. We get this perspective through the eyes of Colin Clark (Eddie Redmayne) an ambitious young film enthusiast working on his very first movie set. Through family connections this picture happens to be...
An undiminished appetite
By Alice Bucknell / November 29, 2011
This documentary chronicles El Bulli, the best restaurant in the world.
The Sound of Static
By Scotty Campbell / November 29, 2011
Alva Noto serves up more static, glitches, and erratic rhythms in Univers.
Who will fill Twilight’s void?
By Daniel Rivera / November 28, 2011
Three possibilities for the next tween phenomenon.
A single Iliad launches a thousand stories
By Angela Qian / November 22, 2011
The message is clear, and the horrors of war are apparent.
Breaking Dawn draws fresh blood
By Madhu Srikantha / November 22, 2011
Breaking Dawn: Part 1 is an epic journey into the absurd.
Student composer sets Sandburg to music
By Sarah Miller / November 22, 2011
Singing Fire, an original student composition, premiered last Saturday night at Rockefeller Chapel. Second-year Philip McGrath composed this four-movement piece this past summer after receiving a grant from the University of Chicago Arts Council. The work delves into the meaning and artistic thought behind Carl Sandburg’s poems. McGrath said he was inspired to do the project after reading Sandburg’s “Bath,” a poem about a man who goes to a concert and becomes engulfed by a “singing fire” immediately following the concert. The poem, despite its disillusioned, depressing tone, demonstrates how such dark feelings can change with an encounter with art....
A family portrait painted black
By Cam Bauchner / November 22, 2011
Payne knows that the best movies must have a stroke of comic paint, even if that paint is black.
A sustainable slice at Great Lake
By Noah Weiland / November 22, 2011
Opened in 2008, Great Lake has garnered praise from chefs Grant Achatz, Charlie Trotter, Paul Kahan and some of the most well- known food critics.
Maple and Vine opens a whole can of worms
By Lily Gordon / November 22, 2011
Is happiness really possible in 1955? And if not in 1955, when?
What’s Next? Childhood
By Emily Wang / November 22, 2011
I know Thanksgiving only comes once a year. I know it’s always on the fourth Thursday of November, and it involves a turkey, stuffing, mashed potatoes, green bean casserole, and cranberry sauce (though in my house it’s a roast duck and assorted dishes of Chinese comfort food). I know it’s spent—for better or for worse—with our families. This week many of us will be going home for Thanksgiving. The best part about the holiday season is that each year you bring back not only your ugly sweaters and awkward college stories, but also your memories of past Thanksgivings, each with...
A graphic novelist reveals his tricks
By Ben Sigrist / November 21, 2011
Seeing the creation of a cartoonist’s art is like the opposite of learning the secrets behind a magician’s tricks: it is more mystifying than it is disappointing. The difference between Craig Thompson’s graphic novel Blankets (2003), an autobiographical novel telling of his die-hard Christian upbringing in frigid Wisconsin, and his latest work Habibi (released in September) is considerable. Habibi takes us out of the Midwestern cold and into the desert heat where a sprawling adventure, heavily inspired by the Koran, unfolds. This journey was not as seamless as it appears to be at first glance. Thompson drew over 100 endings...
 
UT stages a rocky family reunion
By Anastasia Golovashkina / November 18, 2011
Much madness is built from the minimal words, props, and settings of the play.
 
Beats and Pieces celebrates Origins opening
By Tomi Obaro / November 18, 2011
Cold weather didn’t stop more than forty students and local Hyde Parkers from attending Origins, an arts event organized by student RSO Beats & Pieces and held at SHoP last night.
Herzog shines a compassionate light on prison abyss
November 18, 2011
Into the Abyss tugs the viewer into a narrative so bleak that it turns in on itself, tunnels through, and arrives, perversely, at a glimmer of optimism.
Weekend STD 11/18/2011-11/20/2011
By Hannah Gold / November 18, 2011
This weekend get a head start on your holiday shopping, go to a hard core film festival, and have the last laugh.
Hunger Strike | At Lillie’s Q, the whole hog is half-hearted
By Iliya Gutin / November 18, 2011
In the land of the BBQ, the simple pit master is king. It seems like the secret to successful barbecue is always some “simply” good meat, “simply” seasoned, and cooked to slow and “simple” perfection. Trial and error, time and experience are the currency of BBQ professionals. That’s why there’s always an air of apprehension regarding “new” BBQ restaurants like Lillie’s Q in Chicago. Sure it’s been open for over a year at this point, but compared to places like Uncle John’s on the Southside—probably open long enough that they were smoking dodos at some point in their history—it just...
Chemistry among RSOs at FOTA’s Art Lab
By Kelsey Reid / November 18, 2011
For students only familiar with the materials and procedures of chemistry labs, this lab is quite different. Festival of the Arts (FOTA) will host its Fall Fair: Art Lab from 5–8 p.m. on Saturday in the Reynolds Club. The event will feature interactive demonstrations from 11 arts RSOs and is free to students. The RSOs involved include dance groups like Argentine Tango Club, Rhythmic Bodies in Motion, and PhiNix Dance Crew, as well as Le Vorris and Vox, Culinary Club, and Fire Escape Films. Two photographers and a filmmaker will also participate. The Classical Entertainment Society will provide props for...
At Court Theatre, an epic 24-hour reading
By Michelle Lee / November 18, 2011
The University of Chicago’s Classical Entertainment Society has set out to read all 24 books of Homer's Iliad this weekend in promotion of Court Theatre’s upcoming play, An Iliad.
Creation’s Birthday gets lost in space
By Jake Walerius / November 18, 2011
For a play about astronomers, Creation’s Birthday seems strangely unable to find the center of its own universe.
Tegan and Sarah liven up old tracks
By Lily Gordon / November 18, 2011
This album is no average 'greatest hits live” package.
Florence the Machine sing the dream on Ceremonialsand
By Kelsey Reid / November 18, 2011
For those familiar with Florence and The Machine’s music, Ceremonials will seem like the next logical step in their artistic growth.
Björk tones it down on Biophilia
By Scotty Campbell / November 17, 2011
Biophilia takes apart songs, reducing them to the most basic qualities.
Don’t worry, it’s only the end of the world
By Philip Ehrenberg / November 15, 2011
Most of us would hate to learn Earth is on a collision course with a rogue planet, but to von Trier, that’s just what the human race needs.
 
Hayes’ unassuming art fights for every message
By Alice Bucknell / November 15, 2011
Hayes' exhibit is an elegant and thoughtful contemplation of the underlying social, political, and artistic values of public protest.
Graham Cracker grows up with director Mendoza
By James DelVesco / November 15, 2011
Graham Cracker is a drama with just the right mix of humor and romantic comedy thrown in.
The little Encyclopedia Show that could
By Donna Guo / November 15, 2011
Though not perfect, The Encyclopedia Show ultimately makes for a quirky, humorous, and very entertaining performance.
Don’t lose yourself in your quest for success
By Jessen O’Brien / November 15, 2011
As application season and seasonal sales approach, it’s time to start looking out for interview outfits. But what do you look for, and how do you retain your own style while remaining professional? It’s a difficult but achievable balance, and here are a few tips to help you find it. First of all, it’s better to err on the conservative side. Yes, once you land that internship or job, you might be able to throw a blazer over an old dress and call it a day, but no matter where you’re applying, you’ll want to stick to something a bit...
 
Cloudy, with a chance of waking nightmare
By Marina Fang / November 11, 2011
You can only shelter yourself from the uncertain for so long.
 
No laugh off-limits for Steve Hofstetter
By Lindsay Warren / November 11, 2011
The Chicago Maroon caught up with Hofstetter, who discussed the counterculture of comedy, Chicago’s stand-up comedy scene (or lack thereof), and the strength of its tradition in improv.
 
Seaside drama doesn’t swim in the mainstream
By Sarah Miller / November 11, 2011
Fans of foreign films and happy endings alike will enjoy Le Havre and see it as a welcome change from mainstream movies that are saturated with dark plotlines and tragic intrigue.
Taking Notes: Thought Catalog makes sartorial sense
By Emma Morrison / November 11, 2011
In beginning our first column, we thought, who better to interview than Ryan O’Connell, founder, editor, and contributor to our well-loved website Thought Catalog.
School’s in session for Cambridge poetry
By Derek Tsang / November 11, 2011
Monday night, University Professor of Practice in the Arts John Wilkinson presented a lecture on the Cambridge School of poetry in front of a rapt, intimate audience for this fall’s Wirszup lecture, continuing a decades-long tradition.
A series of special guests at the Max Palevsky cinema
By Anthony Gokianluy / November 11, 2011
The open and receptive quality of Doc is what enables its special events to be so successful—Special Events provides an opportunity and a forum for the exchange of ideas with the greater campus community and beyond.
Court collects on summer success
By Stephanie Xiao / November 11, 2011
On November 7 Court picked up two Jeff Awards, Chicago’s most prestigious theater honor, at the 43rd Annual Equity Joseph Jefferson Awards in Oak Brook, IL.
 
Mandel gets stuck on indie dream team
By Eliana Polimeni / November 8, 2011
Even for those who weren’t die-hard Matt & Kim fans, it was a performance to be remembered, not only for the music, but for the theatrics as well.
 
Reinke brings grave inspiration to FSC
By Tiantian Zhang / November 8, 2011
Steve Reinke gave me a delirious and peculiar, yet engaging experience, which, in some ways, led to some self-realization.
Blue Scholars teach hip-hop a lesson
By Jennifer Standish / November 8, 2011
These performers connect the Northwest and Midwest through a love for simply “good rap music.”
 
Martha Marcy may have drank the Kool-Aid
By Madhu Srikantha / November 4, 2011
Together, Hawkes and Olsen drive a horrifying story towards a horrifying place—understanding.
 
At Art Institute, design beyond reach
By Celia Bever / November 4, 2011
While many of Goldberg’s sketches and designs may only interest architects or Goldberg fanatics, the exhibit, with its plethora of information, is smartly designed to entice the rest of us, too.
 
Winging it never looked so unscripted
By Eric Shoemaker / November 4, 2011
Through a delicate blending of dance and physical theater, Leslie Danzig and Julia Rhoad’s collaboration resonates beautifully with every-day audience members and refined theatregoers alike.
The Physicists tests the limits of sanity
By Gabriel Kalcheim / November 4, 2011
A philosophic, political comedy with a not-so-healthy dose of absurdism.
Hunger Strike: Oh, burger, where art thou?
By Iliya Gutin / November 4, 2011
Overall, nothing particularly spectacular, but I won’t obnoxiously pretend that the meal was beyond salvation, as in the end our chopping boards were stained with burger juices and nothing more.
Von Bruenchenhein
By Derek Tsang / November 4, 2011
The work is virtuosic and vivacious, a depiction precisely of what cannot be put in words.
Miyavi loses the hair extensions; keeps his cool
By Angela Qian / November 4, 2011
While I, and other fans, may miss the brightly-colored youth that he once was, the 30-year-old Miyavi definitely has not lost his touch.
Boy meets girl meets customs officials
By Sharan Shetty / October 31, 2011
The final image is supposed to be one of revelation. Unfortunately, there’s still not much to see.
 
Punk professor by day, punk rocker by night
By Sarah Miller / October 31, 2011
The Maroon caught up with Comerford to discuss his musical background and the makings of this solo project.
Full focus on Empty Quarter at FSC
By Sarah Miller / October 31, 2011
Empty Quarter took ten years to shoot and produce, but it was well worth the wait.
Rocky night at Rocky Horror
By Lindsay Warren / October 31, 2011
At the end of the night, though, I got to realize once again just how crazy-amazing Chicago is.
Chicago Manual of Style: Don’t beat the winter blues, be the winter blues
By Jessen O’Brien / October 31, 2011
Want to know what’s in? After flipping through pages and pages of catalogues and combing the Internet, I’ve compiled a list of five of this season’s strongest trends. Red, sky blue, burnt orange, turquoise. Instead of grays, blacks, and whites, designers are looking to bright colors to fill their palette this fall and winter season. As the world turns gray and murky with precipitation, don’t fight the winter blues—be the winter blues. It’s less about a hint of this or that and more about big sheathes of colors—bold, bright, big. Maxi and midi skirts are also in this year. Short...
 
Frightening times for horror flicks
By Daniel Rivera / October 28, 2011
Save your movie money for the new Twilight.
 
Steppenwolf spotlight on U of C alum
By Joy Crane / October 28, 2011
The Chicago Maroon sat down with Weber to discuss his new play Want and to dole out a bit of advice to aspiring U of C actors.
 
The Rum Diary needs a stiff drink
By Tomi Obaro / October 28, 2011
You will leave the theater with a headache and a vague sense of disappointment... kind of like a hangover.
Halloween STD 10/28/2011-10/31/2011
By Hannah Gold / October 28, 2011
This Halloween throw a toast at RHPS, get lots of free food, and find out what the future holds (for real!).
The Black Angels go to rock ‘n’ roll heaven
By Colin Bradley / October 25, 2011
It’s tempting to say the entire performance was other-worldly, but this would be misleading, for its true merit lay in how carnal and earthly it felt.
Art Institute revisits O’Sullivan’s old frontiers
October 25, 2011
O’Sullivan’s sepia world is an alien landscape.
 
Theophilus London dresses for success
By Alexandra McInnis / October 25, 2011
While discussing Cannes, fashion, and The Police, it became apparent that London really is as cool as he sounds.
 
Face off with The Elephant Man
By Sarah Miller / October 25, 2011
Through a complex retelling of The Elephant Man, The Saint Sebastian Players explore the meaning of humanity in both its hideous and beautiful forms.
 
In rooms the women come and go
By Constance Zhang / October 21, 2011
Toebbe’s collages and paintings promise to leave the viewers the space to draw their own conclusions.
 
The FSC gets intimate with international relations
By Sarah Morell / October 21, 2011
The films were at times shocking, often amusing, and always enlightening.
 
Two-night stands are better than one
By Matthew Schaefer / October 21, 2011
Weekend is a complex story about the intimacies of sex and romance.
Weekend STD 10/21/2011-10/23/2011
By Hannah Gold / October 21, 2011
This weekend get school spirit, life lessons, and endless laughs.
Hunger Strike: Waiting for good dough
By Iliya Gutin / October 21, 2011
The Doughnut Vault truly is a depository of deliciousness.
Amis reinvigorates Bellow’s Chicago legacy
By Emma Broder / October 21, 2011
Novelist Martin Amis spoke this Tuesday about Saul Bellow’s novel The Adventures of Augie March at the main branch of the public library as part of this fall’s One Book, One Chicago series.
 
Glass reflects on journalism career
By Adam Janofsky / October 18, 2011
Glass: “A story is fundamentally about the motion of actions.”
 
For Steppenwolf, home isn’t where the heart is
By Ben Sigrist / October 18, 2011
Except in very brief moments, the true, collective character of The Heart is a Lonely Hunter never quite develops.
 
A little goes a long way at the MCA
By Scotty Campbell / October 18, 2011
The Language of Less demonstrates that, even in the age of iPhones and the 24-hour news cycle, there is still a need for simple reflection and minimalist style in art.
 
The Great Fire just blows smoke
By Eric Shoemaker / October 18, 2011
The Great Fire gets in its own way, the design elements depleting the acting talent’s ability to entertain.
The Spirit Play cashes in on the supernatural
By Alex Allen / October 18, 2011
The Strange Tree Group’s off- the-wall production, The Spirit Play, is the newest fantastical creation of acclaimed playwright Emily Schwartz. The show was born out of the Chicago Department of Cultural Affairs’ Incubator Program, which allows writers to have their plays workshopped on the stage with a cast and crew. The Spirit Play, with its spooky supernaturalism, is nothing out of the ordinary for a theater group as whimsical as The Strange Tree Group. The play is set in 1870s Chicago, in the decorated home of an upper-class Victorian family. Mr. Gerard and the two Foust sisters are holding a...
 
Bombs and betrayals in Under the Blue Sky
By Daniel Rivera / October 18, 2011
Both alienating and moving, Under the Blue Sky is a fascinating exploration of the human experience under duress, both from within and without.
A history lesson for horror buffs at Doc
By Philip Ehrenberg / October 18, 2011
Using Halloween as a case study, New York Times film critic Jason Zinoman laid out his idea of a horror renaissance that began in the late 1960s and continued through the ’70s.
Chicago Manual of Style: Project Runway can’t make it work
By Jessen O’Brien / October 18, 2011
Last Thursday’s episode of Project Runway revealed the ninth season finalists—four contestants chosen to show their work at New York Fashion Week. If you haven’t seen the episode, don’t worry. I don’t plan on giving away any specific spoilers. Instead, I want to take this opportunity to talk about this season as a whole and critique the direction of the show. There are three main issues with the show at this point. First of all, there has been a distinct shift in how the contestants are chosen. When the show first aired, it emphasized selecting genuinely creative and talented designers....
 
An audio misadventure goes viral
By Alice Readick / October 14, 2011
Shut Up Little Man! is an honest and charming film, remarkably unique compared to other documentaries in recent memory.
 
Taryn Simon frames the innocent
By Sarah Miller / October 14, 2011
Even if the subject matter has been previously explored, Simon’s headshots offer a disturbing and compelling perspective on the American legal system.
Weekend STD 10/14/2011-10/16/2011
By Hannah Gold / October 14, 2011
This weekend sample Wisconsin cuisine and free ribs.
Poet laureate attracts big crowds, short attention spans
By Emma Broder / October 14, 2011
W.S. Merwin, a former U.S. poet laureate whose career has spanned over five decades, gave a reading October 6 at the Harold Washington Library Center downtown
The world is watching the Chicago International Film Festival
By Alex Allen / October 14, 2011
The Chicago International Film Festival is a high-profile event and one of the few opportunities to catch rare foreign features
 
Clooney’s campaign isn’t personal; it’s just politics
By Philip Ehrenberg / October 10, 2011
If this is the lowest someone can fall on the ides of March, they should consider themselves lucky.
 
Nancy Holt goes inside the great outdoors
By Angela Qian / October 10, 2011
Like the viewer’s winding passage through the exhibit, Holt’s work is full of growth, both natural and created.
 
Old friends and dead ends at Strawdog
By Michaela Cross / October 10, 2011
Old Times is the kind of play and the kind of production that won’t let you blink.
STD–10/7/11-10/13/2011
By Hannah Gold / October 7, 2011
Friday 10/7 The Smart Museum of Art invites you to bring out your inner propagandist at its tongue-in-cheek Communist (Art) Party. Create original posters influenced by Soviet propaganda, mingle with Northwestern students, and eat free food. For inspiration, check out the Process and Artistry in the Soviet Vanguard and Vision and Communism exhibits, on view now until January 22. (5550 South Greenwood Avenue, 8-10:30 p.m., free) Saturday 10/8 A used book sale will be held at the Hyde Park Shopping Center Courtyard October 8-10. Prices range from 50 cents to $5. Or, get in on the action beforehand. Drop your...
Gilt-y pleasure
By Iliya Gutin / October 7, 2011
What’s in the name of a restaurant? Sometimes a lot more than you’d expect.
 
The scene changes, but The Beats stay the same
By Eric Shoemaker / October 7, 2011
A bomb sets off The Beats, 16th Street Theater’s latest production.
 
Smart showcases Soviet Union poster child
By Alice Bucknell / October 7, 2011
The Smart’s exhibit Vision and Communism is many things —political, ideological, and structured—but restrained, it is not.
Chicago Manual of Style: A flattering form for fall
By Jessen O’Brien / October 4, 2011
With any luck, these tips will keep you constantly cozy, as well as fashionable and fabulous.
Six photographers play house at HPAC
By Alexandra McInnis / October 4, 2011
No Place Like Home, Hyde Park Art Center’s new exhibit, gives an ironic twist to Dorothy’s Kansas-bound journey in The Wizard of Oz. The exhibit, curated by Chicago photographer Dawoud Bey, features six photographers who explore stereotypes of domestic and communal life. No Place Like Home questions preconceived notions of home by presenting clichés, analyzing them, and defying them. Through their work, the photographers demonstrate that homes and the relationships within them are complex, and largely influenced by political, cultural, economic, and social factors. The exhibition begins with the work of Leilani Wertens, whose photographs depict the bare interiors of...
 
Reich finds harmony in tragedy
By Scotty Campbell / October 4, 2011
More controversy has surrounded the latest album by Steve Reich, the Pulitzer Prize–winning American minimalist composer, than any other of his works.
 
Classic Hollywood fuels wild Drive
By Jordan Larson / October 4, 2011
We’re left with a cool and unsettling story of a truly imaginary character—someone who will never exist in real life, just as he barely exists on the screen.
 
Space travel is possible with Van Kerckhoven’s art
By Morgan McCarty / September 30, 2011
In a Saturnian World is a frantic exploration of the limits of Van Kerckhoven’s work, purposefully repetitive and overwhelming.
 
Clybourne Park examines a house divided
By Ben Sigrist / September 30, 2011
Steppenwolf's Clybourne Park covers a 50-year span of ups and downs, both personal and societal, all stuffed into a single house.
 
Goodman paints a vivid portrait of Rothko
By Jordan Larson / September 30, 2011
Like the swaths of red in Rothko’s paintings, the painters’ outbursts and breakdowns are what give the play life.
 
O-issue 2011: Campus art
By Jordan Larson / September 17, 2011
With a brand-new arts center opening next year and a slew of museums and RSOs on campus, there’s much more art at the U of C than just that authentic Chagall hanging in your dorm.
Food Fight: Three cheers for wine, cheese, and beer at Pastoral
By Hannah Gold / May 27, 2011
Bark-rind beer cheese? English cloth-bound cheddar? Learn everything you didn't know about cheese at Pastoral.
Chicago Manual of Style: Accessible accessories for a variety of styles
By Jessen O’Brien / May 27, 2011
From "flatforms" to belt purses, learn about the accessories in style this season.
Moving Mountains makes a tsunami with Waves
By Bradford Rogers / May 27, 2011
Moving Mountains talks to the Maroon about their evolution as a band, labels, and writing honest lyrics.
Op shop gives art a chance
By Tomi Obaro / May 27, 2011
Hyde Park's Op shop, a traveling space for local artists to display their work,has featured everything from dance performances to a mobile animation station
 
From LA to Kanye, Far East Movement draws on wide influences
By Will Sims / May 24, 2011
Kev Nish of Far East Movement talks about about growing up in L.A. and what it means to make music for “the playlist generation.”
Food Fight: Take a walk on the taco side
By Richard Deulofeut / May 24, 2011
For those who have already been to Pilsen and exhausted the more popular Mexican food options around 18th Street, there’s no better experience for a food-lover than the taco tour.
A ribbon runs through Barth’s exploration of photography
By Morgan McCarty / May 24, 2011
Art Institute exhibit shows light's ability to trick the eye
STD– 05/20 to 05/26
By Christine Yang / May 20, 2011
Stuff to do, from pug fashion shows to meatball contests.
Food Fight: Lao Sze Chuan has got it goin’ on
By Maroon Staff / May 20, 2011
Two foodies explore one of the most beloved of UChicago culinary destinations, Lao Sze Chuan
A play within a play about theater cliches
By Ana Klimchynskaya / May 20, 2011
Put your meta-hat on, because this is going to be one wild ride.
O’Brien explores subconscious effect on creation
By Morgan McCarty / May 20, 2011
O'Brien's 100 piece exhibit at the Renaissance Society utilizes ceramic, metal, wood, and even glitter.
Gershwin’s genre-bending clssic comes to life
By Tomi Obaro / May 20, 2011
With minimalist staging and stellar acting, Court Theatre's Porgy and Bess is is a powerful and daring performance.
UBallet dances circles around Disney
By Michelle Lee / May 20, 2011
With roughly 60 people and characters from the Lilac Fairy to Little Red Riding Hood, UBallet's the Sleeping Beauty promises to be a dance tour de force.
Voices In Your Head warms up for album release
By Wenjia Zhao / May 17, 2011
The a capella group will perform Saturday, May 21, in Bartlett Dining Hall.
Graney turns a cerebral classic into a hallucinatory horror
By Rob Underwood / May 17, 2011
Büchner’s play Woyzeck has become a classic commentary on the dehumanizing effects of military culture and sexual repression.
New tour springs Elizabeth & the Catapult into the spotlight
By Hallie Grumer / May 17, 2011
Elizabeth Ziman talks about her tour with Sara Bareilles, her influences, and how to find your passion.
 
Chicago makes it freeze, Crystal Castles makes it rain
By Hannah Gold / May 17, 2011
What promised to be just another drizzly springtime day in Chicago turned out to be an electrifying, propulsive mosh pit.
Chicago Manual of Style– 5/13/11
By Jessen O’Brien / May 13, 2011
A comprehensive guide to sartorial sustainability
STD-5/13/2011-5/19/2011
By Christine Yang / May 13, 2011
Stuff to do, from Zombie Prom to Mayor Rahm.
Warhol exhibit examines the artist’s inspiration
By Will Sims / May 13, 2011
"Warhol at Work" provides a valuable perspective on the man behind some of the most influential and recognizable art of the 20th century.
WHPK reaches out to campus with Summer Breeze
By Tomi Obaro / May 13, 2011
UChicago's radio station WHPK is a collaboration between students and the South Side community.
Summer Breeze’s Walkmen talk about origins
By Bradford Rogers / May 13, 2011
The Maroon caught up with Walkmen's organ and bass player, Walter Martin, to talk about the evolution of the band, Portugal, and the future of the Walkmen.
 
Technology and fashion meet on FOTA’s “wired” runway
By Maroon Staff / May 10, 2011
The Festival of the Arts (FOTA) kicked off its week of student exhibitions with a launch party and fashion show last Saturday in Hutch courtyard.
Of Montreal brings glitter, politics to the Vic Theatre
By Charna Albert / May 10, 2011
Of Montreal's America-themed tour ironically coincides with bin Laden's death.
STD—5/6/2011 to 5/12/2011
By Maroon Staff / May 6, 2011
More cheap things around the town.
New RSO revives traditional Korean drumming
By Michelle Lee / May 6, 2011
The group’s first official performance will be on Friday, May 20, on Bartlett Quad.
Explosions solidify post-rock reputation
By Bradford Rogers / May 6, 2011
With Take Care, Explosions in the Sky showcase everything that made their longtime fans fall in love.
For FOTA, all of campus is a stage
By Jessica Sheft-Ason / May 6, 2011
This year's Festival of the Arts begins this Saturday with a fashion show and launch party.
Foodents: Lem’s BBQ House, redux
By Evan Weiss / May 3, 2011
In response to last Tuesday's Foodents article and last Friday's letter to the editor.
Madness of George III glosses over the true King George
By Gabriel Kalcheim / May 3, 2011
The only source of drama in the Madness of George III is whether the king's madness will be cured.
Incendies trips over political issues, but remains gripping
By Pete Brooks / May 3, 2011
Even if it isn’t the film of the year, Incendies is too careful and too warm a film to ignore.
Chicago Manual of Style—4/29/2011
By Jessen O’Brien / April 29, 2011
What to wear, when and where
Filament’s muses sing of fate and tragedy
By Ana Klimchynskaya / April 29, 2011
Filament Theater breaks the barrier between play and audience in Eurydice and Orpheus.
Silent Tongues make some noise on campus
By Madalyn Frigo / April 29, 2011
UChicago's own jazz ensemble experiments with instrumentation.
Greatest movie ever fails to live up to its name
By Tomi Obaro / April 29, 2011
The Greatest Movie Ever Sold examines the relationship between advertising and entertainment.
 
UChicago’s got a capella
By Maroon Staff / April 26, 2011
Men in Drag performs at UChicago's Got Talent, a showcase of performing arts RSOs. Proceeds from the show were donated to victims of the earthquake in Japan and floods in Pakistan.
Foodents: Lem’s BBQ is the opposite of what you don’t want
By Evan Weiss / April 26, 2011
Lem's BBQ House is everything you would never want from a vegan restaurant.
“Happiness” examines love and art in academia
By Ana Klimchynskaya / April 26, 2011
"There is a Happiness That Morning Is" delivers love and scandal in iambic pentameter.
Black Lips aim to entertain with on-stage antics
By Bradford Rogers / April 22, 2011
Black Lips talk punk hippies, entertainment, and white kids with machine guns.
w h o k i l l brings all the tunes to the yard
By Lyndsey McKenna / April 22, 2011
tUnE-yArD's latest manages to be enjoyable even while discussing some dreary realities of today’s world.
RSOs show talents, raise funds
By Tomi Obaro / April 22, 2011
Mandel Hall will host Uchicago's Got Talent tonight at 6:30 p.m.
Share the Joy reinvigorates the distorted pop sound of Vivian Girls
By Maroon Staff / April 19, 2011
The album is sometimes comical, sometimes melancholic, but all done with a tinge of light-heartedness and nostalgia.
Arlecchino’s Odyssey redefines theater
By Ana Klimchynskaya / April 19, 2011
All you need are words and gestures.
Folk legend Wainwright still has old-school charm and sound
By Blair Thornburgh / April 19, 2011
Loudon Wainwright III's concert at the Old Town School of Folk Music was full of macabre wit and humor.
Bach St. John Passion poses obstacles for choirs, orchestra, and director
By Yasmeen Hussain / April 15, 2011
Bach St. John Passion will be performed this Sunday in Rockefeller Chapel.
STD—4/15/2011 to 4/21/2011
By Maroon Staff / April 15, 2011
A collection of very cheap or free events in Hyde Park.
New Work Week diversifies performances
By Tomi Obaro / April 15, 2011
This year’s New Work Week is the largest in its history with 21 original pieces.
Tomboy brings out the grizzly in Panda Bear
By Lyndsey McKenna / April 15, 2011
Tomboy's darker, sparser sound sets it apart from Panda Bear's previous work.
 
Hanna’s female leads transcend genre
By Tomi Obaro / April 12, 2011
Hanna eschews traditional action genre stereotypes and develops strong female leads.
Local rapper keeps Chicago fresh
By Will Sims / April 12, 2011
Rockie Fresh took a minute from his touring schedule to talk about how a skinny, church-going kid is quickly becoming the face of a new generation of Chicago hip-hop.
ACSA fashion show challenges the fashion industry’s lack of diversity
By Tomi Obaro / April 12, 2011
A model in the African and Caribbean Students Association's fashion show tells her story.
El Nogalar successfully transports Chekhov’s classic
By Ben Sigrist / April 8, 2011
El Nogalar does not encapsulate the story of modern Mexico so much as it paints an empathetic portrait of characters learning to survive in times of upheaval and violence.
The Hot L Baltimore is missing more than just its “e”
By Ben Sigrist / April 8, 2011
Like the hotel itself, The Hot L Baltimore sags under the weight of its many characters.
U of C’s Squat the Condos craft a crass, yet relatable EP
By Hannah Gold / April 8, 2011
We Should Be Together plays less like a romance novel and more like a messy adolescent relationship.
STD–4/8/2011 to 4/14/2011
By Christine Yang / April 8, 2011
Two fests to choose from: ReptileFest and the Indy Film Festival.
It’s no “Young Folks,” but young folks will like Gimme Some
By Yasmeen Hussain / April 5, 2011
While Peter Bjorn and John may never make another hit like “Young Folks,” listeners shouldn’t pass judgment on Gimme Some without listening.
The Pains are crushed under the weight of the ’80s
By Bradford Rogers / April 5, 2011
If you’re looking for the same innovation that ‘80s giants brought to rock music thirty years ago, you might want to look elsewhere.
Moon Duo creates a sonic jungle of sound with Mazes
By Rob Underwood / April 1, 2011
Moon Duo falls somewhere in between giddy psychedelic pop and the expansive tone of post-rock and drone.
Chicago Manual of Style—4/1/2011
By Jessen O’Brien / April 1, 2011
All play and no work makes spring a good time
SASA revamps its show’s image
By Madalyn Frigo / April 1, 2011
SASA is departing from the traditional tone of previous years and putting on a more modern and accessible performance.
Sucker Punch fails as a scantily-clad take on Inception
By Bradford Rogers / April 1, 2011
Zack Snyder has created one of the most over-hyped and underwhelming films of the year.
 
MODA’s night on the town
By Lloyd Lee / March 8, 2011
A slideshow of the MODA Spring 2011 Fashion Show at the Chicago Cultural Center on Friday night.
Strawdog Theatre masters classic Russian novel
By Ana Klimchynskaya / March 8, 2011
Strawdog's adaptation captures the essence of The Master and Margarita with an appropriate reverence for the original.
UT shows that even fairy tales must grow up
By Emily Gerdin / March 8, 2011
This week, University Theatre presents the Stephen Sondheim musical Into the Woods in a performance that addresses coming of age.
Ann Taylor finds U of C’s model students
By Hallie Grumer / March 8, 2011
The clothing brand conducts a nationwide search for a younger look.
STD—3/4 to 3/10
By Christine Yang / March 4, 2011
Movieoke at the Whistler and more!
Chicago Manual of Style—3/4/2011
By Jessen O’Brien / March 4, 2011
Galliano scandal turns fashion towards politics
Lifeline fails to resurrect Collins’s classic mystery
By Ana Klimchynskaya / March 4, 2011
Collins's dynamic characters and narrative structure get lost in translation
With redone show, MODA’s moving on up
By Madalyn Frigo / March 4, 2011
MODA makes a lot of changes for its upcoming fashion show and lookbook
Something is awesome in the state of UT
By Lyndsey McKenna / March 4, 2011
UT’s production of Hamlet, directed by Ellenor Riley-Condit, stays true to the text of Shakespeare’s original.
Not quite fit for a king: The Oscars merely bore and confuse
By Hayley Lamberson / March 1, 2011
Despite their attempts, The Academy may not be ready to change their image.
Toro Y Moi defies genre conventions on sophomore album
By Mitch Bruno / March 1, 2011
Behind all the buzz that’s met its release, Toro’s second LP, Underneath the Pine, is simply great music.
STD—2/25/2011 to 3/3/2011
By Christine Yang / February 25, 2011
Asobi Seksu, Bike Fest, and Alvin Purple at Doc
Street Style—2/25/2011
By Christina Pillsbury / February 25, 2011
Vivien Chung, MAPSS student, Anthropology concentration
Chicago Manual of Style—2/25/2011
By Jessen O’Brien / February 25, 2011
Keep the real world in mind when buying online
PJ Harvey redefines the art of war
By Lyndsey McKenna / February 25, 2011
Let England Shake is a highly conceptual, extraordinarily vivid, tragic, and traumatic work that will remain with the listener long after its 40 minutes are through.
Now is the “Winter” of UT’s discontent
By Wenjia Zhao / February 25, 2011
"Red Light Winter" is a story about unrequited love and intimacy and the loneliness and expectations that nurture love.
Key opens new doors in Bright Eyes’ sound
By Lyndsey McKenna / February 22, 2011
While Bright Eyes has rarely been described as accessible, The People’s Key is easily the band’s most straightforward rock album.
Radiohead creates another challenge with King of Limbs
By Mahmoud Bahrani / February 22, 2011
The journey of trying to figure this album out is a perilous one, but you might learn something about yourself along the way.
HPAC puts police and thieves on the same pedestal
By Charna Albert / February 22, 2011
Police and Thieves examines the differences and similarities between crime and the law.
STD—2/18 to 2/24
By Maroon Staff / February 18, 2011
Flamenco Festival and Ke$ha
Sanchez answers life’s big questions with Porque
By Kirsten Ihnes / February 18, 2011
The search for God is a pretty big undertaking. In Porque No Comes, Lupe Sanchez single-handedly takes on the task.
Chicago indie label makes its way to the top
By Charna Albert / February 18, 2011
Chicago Underground aims to connect with artists on personal and professional level
If two is not a winner, and three no one remembers, what about Number 4?
By Ana Klimchynskaya / February 18, 2011
I Am Number Four makes a muddled mash-up of sci-fi and rom-com
Insecure or not, Off-Off stages on-point improv
By Maroon Staff / February 16, 2011
This quarter's show is called "The Michael Cainesaw Massacre"
Smart’s Muse tracks transformation of tragedy
By Maroon Staff / February 15, 2011
The Tragic Muse shows that seemingly ineffable acts have emotional value in artistic representation.
Darren Criss’ crew comes to town in sci-fi musical
By Maroon Staff / February 15, 2011
Starship proves to be a successful follow-up to A Very Potter Musical.
Chicago welcomes Wiseau’s new camp classic
By Blair Thornburgh / February 15, 2011
The Room is becoming the best worst movie of our time.
Despite hype, Mary is all bark and no bite
By Pete Brooks / February 15, 2011
More than anything, this play proves that race and sexuality are still issues that make audiences squirm.
 
UT stages the crazier side of a classic
By Charna Albert / February 15, 2011
Crime and Punishment takes us into the mind of a killer.
 
Steppenwolf stages predictable Sex
By Katherine Stewart / February 8, 2011
When a man loves a woman, he tells his Twitter
Folk Festival revives music of yesteryear
By Madalyn Frigo / February 8, 2011
The Folk Festival comes to town again for its 51st year
 
American Modern examines a country amidst change
By Will Sims / February 8, 2011
"American Modern" is a journey into the heart of the 1930s.
STD—February 4 to February 10
By Christine Yang / February 4, 2011
Fill your mind with Best Coast and Goodfellas.
Funk It Up suffocates Shakespeare without rhyme or reason
By Ana Klimchynskaya / February 4, 2011
Shakespeare’s universality is buried under unnecessary attempts to modernize him.
Bardem shines a light into the gloom of Biutiful
By Jordan Larson / February 4, 2011
Director Iñárritu and Javier Bardem succeed in showing us the beauty of everyday life.
Chicago Manual of Style—2/1/11
By Jessen O’Brien / February 1, 2011
Three style blogs that stray from tradition
Destroyer trades lyrical depth for disco ambiance
By Ruben Montiel / February 1, 2011
As a whole, Kaputt is a bold and clever record, and a radical departure from Destroyer’s earlier work.
National Identity creates abtract art out of paella
By Morgan McCarty / February 1, 2011
The Construction of a National Identity, depicts the paella recipe through a carefully thought-out, abstracted assemblage of mixed media and ready-made objects.
STD—January 28 to February 3
By Christine Yang / January 28, 2011
This year's Revels and free day at the Field Museum!
Who’s afraid of the big bad Steppenwolf?
By Ana Klimchynskaya / January 28, 2011
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is about coming to terms with reality and doing away with illusions.
Court’s character-driven Women is a play without plot
By Gabriel Kalcheim / January 28, 2011
"Three Tall Women" eschews traditional action-based plot in favor of internal conflict.
Foodents: Concerning chubs
By Evan Weiss / January 25, 2011
An exploration of Calumet Fisheries' finest
As You Like It falls short of the Bard’s expectations
By Gabriel Kalcheim / January 25, 2011
Chicago Shakespeare Theater's latest production leaves the viewer underwhelmed.
Marin finds his place in modernist landscapes
By Constance Zhang / January 25, 2011
John Marin is captured as experimental, spontaneous, and composed.
MCA shows off versatility of comic art
By Wenjia Zhao / January 25, 2011
New Chicago Comics is a testament to the potential of comics as they transform from a lowbrow craft to true art.
Female fangs overthrow male dominance in Carmilla
By Ana Klimchynskaya / January 25, 2011
WildClaw Theatre’s Carmilla tells the story of a female vampire who has intimate relationships with her victims.
 
Foodents: Hot Doug’s? More like Not Doug’s!
By Evan Weiss / January 21, 2011
Hot Doug’s is a lot of things. It is cold and far away. It is busy and expensive.
Donald Glover graduates from community college to UofC
By Mae Rice / January 21, 2011
Glover adds stand-up to his comedic repertoire
Punk and country mix in Social Distortion’s long-awaited album
By Matthew Sellman / January 21, 2011
Overproduction takes away veteran punk-rockers' power
UBallet combines two classics for winter performance
By Michelle Lee / January 21, 2011
This weekend, UBallet will be performing Swan Lake and Peter Pan.
Rennaissance Society gives minimalism maximum exposure
By Blair Thornburgh / January 14, 2011
The Renaissance Society presents Gerard Byrne’s video installation as a window into the myth of the Minimalist movement.
NBC’s The Cape presents an (un)intentionally campy crusader
By Elisabeth Sanders / January 14, 2011
I’d like it to be clear that The Cape, NBC’s midseason superhero drama, is really, really terrible.
STD—January 14 to January 20
By Christine Yang / January 14, 2011
Poem Present, YouTube sensation Keenan Cahill, and more fun stuff to do this week
“A Fire In My Belly” at the Smart
By Hayley Lamberson / January 11, 2011
David Wojnarowicz's controversial film comes to campus.
Chicago Manual of Style—1/11/11
By Jessen O’Brien / January 11, 2011
Dos and Don'ts of the New Year
Zamudio examines Chicago through the lens of nostalgia
By Morgan McCarty / January 11, 2011
Chicago photographer captures the fading essence of a bustling post-war culture’s descent into gentrification.
Chicago Cultural Center unearths untrained genius
By Morgan McCarty / January 11, 2011
The photographs of Vivian Maier, an untrained and unknown photographer, rival those of famed masters.
STD—January 7 to January 13
By Christine Yang / January 7, 2011
Boobs and Goombas, Paris is Burning, and other fun stuff to do around Chicago this week
 
Blue Valentine gives “labor of love” new meaning
By Julia Greenberg / January 7, 2011
Ryan Gosling and Michelle Williams capture the complexities of real-life romance
 
With a classical pedigree, the Dead Superheroes Orchestra revitalizes goth rock
By Charna Albert / January 7, 2011
A rock opera and the U of C form the origin story of the Dead Superheroes
 
Voices Top 5 for 2010
By Hayley Lamberson / November 30, 2010
Voices weigh in on the top 5 albums, Oscar contenders, viral videos, overplayed songs, and worst fashion trends of the year.
Top 5 Worst Fashion Faux-Pas
By Madalyn Frigo / November 30, 2010
You know them when you see them.
Top 5 Oscar Contenders
By Hayley Lamberson / November 30, 2010
Love them or hate them, these movies are getting a lot of hype.
Top 5 Overplayed Songs
By Michelle Lee / November 30, 2010
The songs you could never escape, no matter where you went.
Top 5 Viral Videos
By Charna Albert / November 30, 2010
The videos that infested News Feeds everywhere.
Top 5 Albums
By Lyndsey McKenna / November 30, 2010
The albums you'll remember years from now.
You do the review: A Foodents Mad Lib
By Evan Weiss / November 23, 2010
Your time has come, dear reader.
Emerald City gives the Wizard a modern makeover
By Matthew Sellman / November 23, 2010
This charming trip through Oz makes up for its modest production level with zany costuming, a variety of humor, and unabashed performers.
A day in the life of Rhythmic Bodies in Motion
By Wenjia Zhao / November 23, 2010
The Maroon takes an in-depth look at this year's RBIM auditions.
Court shows there’s no place like Home
By Ben Sigrist / November 23, 2010
Court Theatre's play Home tells the story of Cephus Miles, a young black farmer who loves his farmland and its history so much that he refuses to be drafted into Vietnam War.
Chicago Manual of Style—11/19/10
By Jessen O’Brien / November 19, 2010
The three commandments of fashion
STD (Stuff to Do)—November 19 through November 25
By Christine Yang / November 19, 2010
The Macy's Thanksgiving Parade and the UofC's own Squat the Condos play at the Double Door
Beats and Pieces brings to campus a multicultural view of art
By Hallie Grumer / November 19, 2010
Students and community put work on display in "Origins"
Filament Theatre transports Shakespeare back to his playful roots
By Ana Klimchynskaya / November 19, 2010
Filament Theatre's Choose Thine Own Adventure improves Othello & others through improv
Musician George Lewis riffs on improv and ethics
By Katherine Stewart / November 16, 2010
Chicago’s own George Lewis—an esteemed musician, composer, and scholar—returned home to host a night of music and discussion at Mandel Hall this past Friday.
Off-Off Campus catches Bieber fever with fall show
By Lynda Lopez / November 16, 2010
Off-Off Campus, the U of C’s largest student-run improvisational theater troupe, made Justin Bieber the centerpiece of its fall 2010 season by entitling its weekly show “Leave it to Bieber.”
Romeo and Juliet’s stellar cast captures Shakespeare’s subtleties
By Gabriel Kalcheim / November 16, 2010
Whereas we exalt Shakespeare’s late tragedies of perturbed noble statesmen—Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth, and King Lear—we too often write off Romeo and Juliet as one of Shakespeare’s early attempts at tragedy, lacking the depth of his mature genius.
With Big Boi and Kid Sister, MAB combines MCs and Mandel Hall
By Lyndsey McKenna / November 16, 2010
This year’s fall concert featured Big Boi and Kid Sister, two artists whose critical acclaim eclipses their fame.
STD—November 12 to November 18
By Christine Yang / November 12, 2010
UT's the Rose Tattoo, the MCA hosts its monthly Mash Flob, and Auto Tune karaoke on the North Side.
Wallpaper blurs the boundaries between sincerity and satire
By Jordan Holliday / November 12, 2010
Wallpaper plays at the Double Door this Saturday.
“Doc” chronicles a misunderstood genius
By Hallie Grumer / November 12, 2010
Immy Humes remembers her father, Paris Review-founder Doc Humes, through film.
Sounds of the Soviets take the stage at Mandel
By Katherine Stewart / November 9, 2010
Ani Aznavoorian and Lera Auerbach made their Chicago recital debut at Mandel Hall Friday.
Foodents: An Ode to Manny’s
By Evan Weiss / November 9, 2010
How Foodents feel about Manny's greasy diner.
NBC gets a dose of U of C as alum competes on The Apprentice
By Lynda Lopez / November 9, 2010
Brandy Kuentzel (J.D.'06) has worked as a corporate attorney and founder of a cupcake business. She is now competing on season 10 of The Apprentice.
Art Institute brings tapestry into the 21st century
By Rob Underwood / November 9, 2010
June Wayne’s expertise in color organization and expression of singularly captivating images imbues her exhibition with a relaxing beauty which is often difficult to capture.
In U.S. debut, Richard Hawkins takes control of chaos
By Constance Zhang / November 5, 2010
Hawkins's culture-conscious collages merge fantasy and the mundane
STD—November 5 to November 11
By Christine Yang / November 5, 2010
Back to the Future at Doc and sexy, violent times with Lucha VaVOOM
Chicago Manual of Style—11/5/2010
By Jessen O’Brien / November 5, 2010
From across the pond, a new perspective on American style
On the scene this week: Who’s playing where
By Rob Underwood / November 5, 2010
Rob Underwood shows us what Chicago bands are playing around town this week.
UT presents a dream upon waking in Life is a Dream
By Emily Gerdin / November 5, 2010
Dream proves to be an unexpected primer on parent-child relations
Modern, yet misguided: Don’t flock to Goodman’s Seagull
By Gabriel Kalcheim / November 2, 2010
Society’s repressive power to confine individuals to a single role and to define them only in terms of that role is the heart-wrenching theme of Anton Chekhov’s The Seagull, re-imagined for the Owen Stage of the Goodman Theatre.
The Conversion: A play in one act
By Evan Weiss / November 2, 2010
THE SETTING: Top Notch Beefburgers, an 80’s-style diner nestled deep in the heart of Beverly, on the South Side of Chicago.
 
Chicago Manual of Style—10/29/2010
By Jessen O’Brien / October 29, 2010
Style on film: Documentaries depict the working world of fashion
In Pilsen, art becomes a matter of life and death
By Ana Klimchynskaya / October 29, 2010
The National Museum of Mexican Art holds its yearly Day of the Dead exhibit
Venus Collective brings new voices to Chicago art scene
By Julia Harper / October 29, 2010
The Venus Collective is an all-female association of Chicago artists that hosts exhibitions at venues in many different neighborhoods of Chicago to raise money for women’s charity organizations.
Review: Succeed with Women relies on cliches
By Hallie Grumer / October 26, 2010
While the book's advice is constructive for the most part, much are uninspired, commonplace suggestions such as “be confident” or “dress well.”
Foodents: No hurry for curry from Chicago Curry House
By Evan Weiss / October 26, 2010
New experiences have no place here.
U of C alum Aukin directs Old Masters at Steppenwolf
By Ben Sigrist / October 26, 2010
Daniel Aukin draws on experience from the U of C and beyond to direct The old Masters.
Alum refutes U of C’s reputation by penning dating guide
By Hallie Grumer / October 26, 2010
How to Succeed with Women Without Being Weird encompasses many aspects of dating, from how to understand what women want to where to meet them, and all the way to how to seduce them.
Humanities Day opens classroom doors to campus and community
By Michelle Lee / October 22, 2010
Humanities Day: It's more than just buttons!
Move over, Pixar: International kid’s movies get their due at Children’s Film Fest
By Yasmeen Hussain / October 22, 2010
Although it may seem that Disney and Pixar monopolize the children’s film industry, the 27th Annual Chicago International Children’s Film Festival shows that even kid’s movies can have indie cred.
Louie Anderson defends Midwest’s understated cool
By Emily Gerdin / October 22, 2010
Anderson's own family feuds inspired his comedy
Chicago Manual of Style—10/22/2010
By Jessen O’Brien / October 22, 2010
Clothing amid controversy: Examining American Apparel
STD—October 22 to October 28
By Christine Yang / October 22, 2010
The Children's International Film Festival at Doc and Humanities Day
Golden age of jazz comes to the silver screen
By Megan Anderluh / October 22, 2010
Reel Jazz brings films of the Jazz Age to Harper Court
Candide takes too many pages out of its own book
By Ana Klimchynskaya / October 19, 2010
Candide is the story of a journey of discovery, and the audience (although presumably less naïve than Candide) is along for the ride to learn (or relearn) some of his lessons.
Foodents: At Julius Meinl, taste the rainbow—the beige rainbow, that is
By Evan Weiss / October 19, 2010
Austrian café Julius Meinl stands as a warm, glowing outpost in a strange and dark sea all too battered by gray and heavy storms.
Chicago music: A brief guide to the city’s scene
By Rob Underwood / October 19, 2010
A smidgen of what Chicago has to offer
Beds and Guns, sort of: an abstract view of comfort
By Wenjia Zhao / October 19, 2010
Kim Piotrowski’s Beds and Guns is imbued with just a bit more of a twist to make its viewers pause and think.
STD—October 15 to October 21
By Christine Yang / October 15, 2010
Margaret Cho, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, and Adler Planetarium's Adler After Dark
Sufjan Stevens enters a new “Age”
By Lyndsey McKenna / October 15, 2010
On his newest album, "The Age of Adz"—the follow-up to his critically acclaimed 2005 album Illinois—Stevens seems to be starting anew.
Amateur auteurs make their debut at Home Movie Day
By Katherine Stewart / October 15, 2010
On Saturday, October 16th, the Chicago Film Archives (CFA), will host Home Movie Day for its eighth consecutive year at the Chicago Cultural Center.
Once Around, Once Again: the Autumn Defense keeps its alt-country calm
By Lyndsey McKenna / October 12, 2010
Once Around is a nice, quaint collection of soft tunes. However, the album leaves more to be desired.
Foodents: At Russian Tea Time, Food Eats You!
By Evan Weiss / October 12, 2010
Russian Tea Time offers the best in black tea and red velvet.
 
HPAC gets warm and fuzzy with nostalgic Ground Floor
By Morgan McCarty / October 12, 2010
Ground Floor is a wonderful exhibition of artists from various Master of Fine Arts programs around Chicago.
STD (Stuff to Do)—10/08 to 10/14
By Christine Yang / October 8, 2010
Toy Story 3, Yo Gabba Gabba, and Yoga at Rockefeller
Chicago Manual of Style—10/08/2010
By Jessen O’Brien / October 8, 2010
Mad Men to Minimalism: A fashion week primer
Smart Museum brings Chinese Art back to the future
By Megan Anderluh / October 8, 2010
China's fogotten history goes high-tech in Echoes of the Past
The Chicago International Film Festival
By Megan Anderluh / October 8, 2010
The city celebrates the silver screen
Lifeline’s Wuthering Heights looks at the dark side of romance
By Ana Klimchynskaya / October 8, 2010
Audience gets chilled to the bone with Lifeline Theatre's immersive adaptation
FOODENTS: In the beginning, there was food
By Evan Weiss / October 5, 2010
Good Food is fun and important and a good way to spend your time—perhaps even an essential ingredient in the plentiful stew we call The Good Life.
Renaissance Society becomes a room divided with Rebecca Warren
By Morgan McCarty / October 5, 2010
Interactive and engaging, Warren’s abstracted pieces are an argument concerning the definitions and limitations of sculpture.
“Howl” tenderly revisits Ginsberg’s life, work
By Rob Underwood / October 5, 2010
The ambiguous and chaotic relationship Ginsberg had with his work shines through with complexity and drama for the majority of the film.
U of C alum shows the ordinary side of “Gossip Girl”
By Jordan Holliday / October 3, 2010
Leila Sales (A.B. '06) draws from her personal experience at an elite Boston prep school for her first novel, "Mostly Good Girls"
“Easy A” gets an easy F
By Madelyn Freed / October 3, 2010
An unbelievable plot and message of keeping your head down and your mouth shut in high school make "Easy A" less-than-enjoyable
Facebook takes a backseat in Facebook: The Movie
By Jingru Yang / October 3, 2010
The Social Network shows Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg as ruthless and wrathful
Chicago Manual of Style—09/19/10
By Jessen O’Brien / September 20, 2010
To pack or not to pack, that is the question
 
U of C student brings magic of folk music to Beijing
By Alice Mori / September 20, 2010
Si Chen commemorated her year teaching in China with an evening of photography, drinks, and song
Backfire
By Ben Sigrist / September 20, 2010
In "Takers," male fantasy trips over action, heist conventions
You cannot stop the Serenity
By Liat Spiro / September 20, 2010
Where Midwest and Wild West meet...in space!
 
Transformers 3 comes to Chicago
By Lloyd Lee / July 27, 2010
Photographer Lloyd Lee happened across the "Transformers" shoot downtown this weekend and recorded everything that met his eye.
With “Inception,” Nolan bewilders and bedazzles
By Jessica Sheft-Ason / July 20, 2010
For this summer's biggest blockbuster, you'll have to put on your thinking cap
Trapped Inside A Parallelogram
By Ben Sigrist / July 20, 2010
Steppenwolf's latest play questions the nature of belief with a time traveling dose of science fiction.
 
U of C alum shoots a short in Vietnam
By Jordan Holliday / July 3, 2010
Andy DeJohn (A.M. '03) is in Vietnam this summer, making a short film inspired by the life of a student he met while teaching on the U of C's campus
 
The show must go on: Students revive school circus
By Christy Perera / May 28, 2010
Jugglers, aerial dancers, and stilt-walkers show there's no clownin' around at Le Vorris and Vox
UBallet plays with tradition in spring show
By Katie Tu / May 28, 2010
Student choreography loosens up Shakespeare's Dream, and they also performed Don Quixote
Court evokes the power of classic South African play
By Sharan Shetty / May 28, 2010
Swize Banzi Is Dead probes themes of identity during times of struggle
STD (Stuff to Do)—May 28 through June 3
By Christine Yang / May 28, 2010
Dillo Day, Golosa, and Men in Drag
 
Voices Summer Movie Preview
By Michelle Welch / May 28, 2010
Breaking down the familiar categories of the summer movie season
Performance Art
By Claire Hungerford / May 21, 2010
The Dean's Men perform "Woo Me, Woo Me" at the Museum of Contemporary Art on Wednesday as part of University of Chicago Night at the MCA.
STD (Stuff to Do)—May 21 through May 27
By Christine Yang / May 21, 2010
Glee comes to town and Joe's Bar throws its annual Pug Party
Signal Ensemble shows the Aftermath of sex, drugs, and rock ‘n’ roll
By Jonathan Grabinsky / May 21, 2010
Aftermath examines when Jones left the Stones
UT gets love sick with The Flu Season
By Christy Perera / May 21, 2010
UT's lookin' so crazy in love
Pat Metheny brings new meaning to “wall of sound”
By Ruben Montiel / May 21, 2010
Metheny's magnificent machine mimicked many musicians May 10 during the Chicago stop of his tour
Third-year Lim En (middle) performs a lyrical dance for the Rhythmic Bodies in Motion’s Spring Showcase at Mandel Hall on Sunday evening
By Maroon Staff / May 18, 2010
Third-year Lim En (middle) performs a lyrical dance for the Rhythmic Bodies in Motion's Spring Showcase at Mandel Hall on Sunday evening.
Chicago Manual of Style—5/18/2010
By Jessica Hester / May 18, 2010
Pruning the college closet for the "real world"
Smart Museum sketches portrait of a tragedy
By Jessen O’Brien / May 18, 2010
New exhibit revisits a West Side fire's legacy of revenge and grief.
 
Sounds of summer burst onto campus
By Will Sims / May 18, 2010
Nas, Damian Marley, and The Dirty Projectors had the hipsters and the hip-hopsters moving at Summer Breeze.
STD—05/14 to 5/20
By Christine Yang / May 14, 2010
Conan's coming to town, and so is Nickelback!
Hunger Strike—05/14/2010
By Iliya Gutin / May 14, 2010
Where's the beef? Not at the Green Zebra
 
The Good Negro shows the personal side of political struggle
By Monika Lagaard / May 14, 2010
Nothing is as it seems in the civil rights movement
Neverwhere weaves an elaborate urban fantasy
By Will Sims / May 14, 2010
Gaiman's novel adapts well from page to stage
Smize for the camera
By Maroon Staff / May 11, 2010
The FOTA Launch Party was held Saturday in Hutch Courtyard.
Internet killed the video star
By Voices Staff / May 11, 2010
Scandalous videos to shock a jaded audience
Lahiri speaks on life, literature, and libraries
By Dani Brecher / May 11, 2010
Pulitzer prize-winning author gives talk as this year's Kestnbaum Writer-in-Residence
Chicago Manual of Style—05/11/10
By Jessica Hester / May 11, 2010
Dress in your workday best
STD (Stuff to Do)—May 7 through May 13
By Christine Yang / May 7, 2010
Judgment Day is upon us! So is Joel McHale!
Everyday Adventures examines the art of childhood
By Blair Thornburgh / May 7, 2010
The Art Institute’s "Everyday Adventures Growing Up" peeks into the weird and wonderful world of picture-book art.
New enemies, old demons come to play in Iron Man 2
By Michelle Welch / May 7, 2010
Iron Man 2 proves its predecessor was a neat outing, but, as Tony Stark says, “It’s good to be back.”
UT’s Dining Room seats many families
By Yasmeen Hussain / May 7, 2010
This week, University Theater is going domestic. The Dining Room, their sixth week production, examines constancy and transformation throughout time.
The Clash: DKE’s Battle of the Bands
By Maroon Staff / May 4, 2010
FSSSH! performs as part of Delta Kappa Epsilon's annual Battle of the Bands on Saturday.
Virtuosity and vivacity: a night at Mandel Hall with the Belcea Quartet
By Alexandria Pabich / May 4, 2010
Group gives campus a spring string fling
Chicago Manual of Style—5/4/2010
By Jessica Hester / May 4, 2010
I tried to sneak out of the changing room so that no one would see me. I was trying on bathing suits in a quiet beach-side store in Ft. Lauderdale, and at the salesgirl's request, had left half of my fitting-room haul on a rack outside. Having already thrown out all of the other contenders, I needed the suits that were hanging just out of reach. I attempted to slink stealthily out of my fitting room and back inside before my friends noticed. It didn’t work. After turning in our honors theses, two of my friends and I dragged our...
Rennaissance Society invites us to the space between
By Jordan Larson / May 4, 2010
New exhibit showcases themes of vulnerability and memory in mixed media
Street art goes from the back alley to the box office
By Jordan Larson / May 4, 2010
Banksy paints a muddled portrait of Mr. Brainwash
STD—04/30/10
By Christine Yang / April 30, 2010
Tracey Morgan and the Ren Society's new exhibit
Hunger Strike—04/30/10
By Iliya Gutin / April 30, 2010
The revolution with be televised...shamelessly
 
Passion Pit electrifies Congress Theater
By Ben Samuels-Kalow / April 30, 2010
Passion Pit, the five-man electropop outfit from Cambridge, MA, played its second sold-out concert at the Congress Theater April 22.
 
Chicago Manual of Style—4/27/2010
By Jessica Hester / April 27, 2010
On the prowl for stylish students
Gogol Bordello thinks globally, rocks locally
By Blair Thornburgh / April 27, 2010
Immigrant punks take Chicago
Off-Off turns on the wit for its 24th season
By Jessen O’Brien / April 27, 2010
Tradition and training behind the scenes with campus improv troupe
 
University Orchestra shows off its Lisztomania
By Rob Underwood / April 27, 2010
Pianist Chen steals the spotlight with outstanding performance
Grand Strand
By Maroon Staff / April 24, 2010
Sherry Poet-in-Residence Mark Strand gave a reading Wednesday in Classics Hall.
STD–4/23 TO 4/29
By Christine Yang / April 23, 2010
Angels and Airwaves and 31 Cent Scoop Night
Shortcuts—Christian Scott, Yesterday You Said Tomorrow
By Ruben Montiel / April 23, 2010
Yesterday You Said Tomorrow is Scott’s most fully-realized, listenable, and mature record to date.
Alum puts new spin on “biker bar”
By Madelyn Freed / April 23, 2010
John Greenfield (A.B. '93) takes local beer background on the road
Chicago Manual of Style—4/20/2010
By Jessica Hester / April 20, 2010
At last, museums put fashion on a pedestal
Symposium probes Chicago’s poetic tradition
By Rob Underwood / April 20, 2010
Speakers discuss local roots of poetic arts
 
Million Dollar Quartet goes for broke with shallow nostalgia
By Jonathan Grabinsky / April 20, 2010
Rockin' musical falls a couple bucks short
New Work Week puts student writing on stage
By Yasmeen Hussain / April 20, 2010
UT/TAPS presents week-long showcase of creative collaborations
Funeral is dead on arrival
By Michelle Welch / April 16, 2010
The American remake of the British comedy flounders as gross-out graverobbing
Chicago Shakespeare Theater puts on a new Shrew
By Will Sims / April 16, 2010
Nothing is as it seems in Shakespeare's battle of the sexes
Porchlight goes Into the Woods
By Christy Perera / April 16, 2010
At the Theater Building Chicago, Stephen Sondheim’s classic musical Into the Woods takes the stage with an excellent cast from the Porchlight Theater.
Hunger Strike—4/16/2010
By Iliya Gutin / April 16, 2010
The double letdown
OK Go puts rock in motion
By Ben Sigrist / April 16, 2010
The Maroon talks music videos and record labels with OK Go bassist Tim Norwind
Chicago Manual of Style—4/16/2010
By Jessica Hester / April 16, 2010
Shopping close to home
Derby girls roll with the punches
By Madelyn Freed / April 13, 2010
Fast-paced racing is feminism and punk fury: on wheels!
If it’s too loud, you’re too old
By Asher Klein / April 13, 2010
Smith Westerns' energy and talent show the kids are all right
Steppenwolf’s Game plays with sadness
By Jonathan Grabinsky / April 13, 2010
Apathy and cynical humor take center stage in Beckett's tragicomedy
STD (Stuff to Do)—April 9 through April 15
By Christine Yang / April 9, 2010
Thom Yorke's supergroup, The Breakfast Club, and cats!
Nerds get their revenge in Kick-Ass
By Blair Thornburgh / April 9, 2010
It's a bird, it's a plane, it's...Nicolas Cage!
Kushner gives notes on life and the liberal arts
By Ella Christoph / April 9, 2010
The playwright was on campus all this week, discussing his art and influences
Chicago Manual of Style—4/6/2010
By Jessica Hester / April 6, 2010
Florals spring eternal in perennial springtime fashion
Newsom’s quirks charm Chicago
By Jordan Larson / April 6, 2010
The singer and harpist brings her unique brand of folk to the Vic Theater
A many-sided man: Matisse in transition
By Jonathan Grabinsky / April 6, 2010
Art Institute showcases the painter's cubist roots with Picasso, Gris
Simplicity is key to The Secret of Kells
By Ben Sigrist / April 6, 2010
Irish family film keeps it short but sweet
Students crank out drama with 24-hour plays
By Jake Grubman / April 6, 2010
UofCers work round the clock for frantic follies
STD (Stuff To Do)—4/1/2010
By Christine Yang / April 2, 2010
SASA's annual cultural show, Avatar, and Sixteen Candles
Hunger Strike—4/1/2010
By Iliya Gutin / April 2, 2010
Set phasers to "Yum!"
 
Saunders draws positivity from negative space
By Alexandria Pabich / April 2, 2010
German artist Matt Saunders projects a multimedia narrative of recognition and obscurity at the Renaissance Society
The witch hunt begins again with Commonwealth Theater
By Christy Perera / April 2, 2010
The theater company asks: Which witch?
 
Court invites audience into Kushner’s Illusion
By Rob Underwood / April 2, 2010
Nothing is as it seems in Kushner's comedic take on Corneille
Jay Baruchel and Nate Torrence take the transition from TV to the silver screen
By Michelle Welch / March 16, 2010
The co-stars of She's Out of My League discuss their improv background and how filming the movie was like going to camp
She’s Out of My League shows nice guys still finish last
By Michelle Welch / March 16, 2010
The movie tries to show that the nerdy deadbeat can get the sucessful pretty girl, but the couple's chemistry isn't convincing
 
Academy Awards 2010
By Michelle Welch / March 5, 2010
Michelle Welch gives her picks for this year's Oscars.
 
Big Love gets caught in bloody bad romance
By Katie Tu / March 5, 2010
Grooms get choked, a piano is smashed, saw pieces are thrown at an Andy Warhol picture on the wall, and smashed tomatoes litter the floor. Welcome to Big Love.
STD (Stuff to Do)—March 5 through March 11
By Christine Yang / March 5, 2010
Flamenco, The White Stripes documentary, and The Breakfast Club on stage.
Yours, Hypothetically—03/05/2010
By Rory Squire / March 5, 2010
I think there comes a point when most beginner-level language students, frantically committing to memory interminable lists of vocabulary, suddenly stop half-flash through an index card and think: Wait. What?
Romero remake sticks too close to horror tradition
By Hayley Lamberson / March 2, 2010
Spoiler alert! Military bio-weapon goes awry
Hardcore Curriculum—3/2/2010
By Anna Boyle / March 2, 2010
What to do when a friend's boyfriend has a wandering eye, and how to let them down easy during spring break
Newsom plays conductor to Have One on Me’s multiple movements
By Asher Klein / March 2, 2010
Out of many disparate elements, One album emerges
Steppenwolf nearly makes A Separate Peace a theatrical masterpiece
By Matt Barnum / March 2, 2010
Steppenwolf Theatre almost captures the perfection that is John Knowles’ classic novel.
HPAC’s Notes gets inside your head
By Hayley Lamberson / February 26, 2010
To enter Notes to Nonself is to begin a journey into the mind.
STD (Stuff to Do)—February 26 through March 4
By Christine Yang / February 26, 2010
Furthur, Dog shows, and Screeching Weasel
Hardcore Curriculum—2/23/2010
By Chris Chavez / February 23, 2010
Neglectful boyfriends and having mutual friends with your ex
Chicago Manual of Style—2/23/2010
By Jessica Hester / February 23, 2010
McQueen's dark genius met a tragic end
The verdict is in: Raven Theatre murders Twelve Angry Men
By Jonathan Grabinsky / February 23, 2010
Raven's production is more empty than angry
Reggie Watts walks the line between hip-hop and stand-up
By Elie Fuchs-Gosse / February 23, 2010
The Maroon sat down with comedian Reggie Watts to discuss his improv influences, voice experimentation, and the life of a touring comedian.
Folk Festival: The 50th Anniversary
By Camille van Horne / February 23, 2010
The 50th Anniversary of the Folk Festival opened on the 12th of February in Mandel Hall.
Still Life Still plays together, stays together
By Mattias Darrow / February 19, 2010
Brendon Saarinen of Still Life Still speaks about about the development of the group, the excitement of being in an up-and-coming band, and the importance of feeling good and loving the universe.
 
Cinderella dances even better outside Disney’s ballroom
By Christy Perera / February 19, 2010
Cinderella trades her glass slippers for point shoes.
A good ham is hard to find
By Iliya Gutin / February 19, 2010
Finding Chicago's best pork products.
 
UT plays the waiting game with Godot
By Yasmeen Hussain / February 19, 2010
Beckett's classic revels in confounded expectations.
Yours, Hypothetically—02/18/2010
By Rory Squire / February 19, 2010
Dear Mister Faulkner: Last night, as I waded like a warrior through four-and-a-half feet of snow (so, that’s eye level for me) that has recently subjugated the area of Virginia where my mother keeps her farm and vegetable garden and, more importantly, the barn in which (generations of southern belles were “Known,” upon hay stacks) our two pigs Queenie and Auntie lived until they were put to death by the blow-gun bearing veterinarian, and also, incidentally, where I write this letter—being as I am in Virginia for the purpose of paying approximately 10 overdue parking tickets (I’m innocent though, honest!),...
STD (Stuff To Do)—10/18/10 to 10/24/10
By Christine Yang / February 19, 2010
Bollywood karaoke, sexploitation, and free February at the Art Institute.
Hardcore Curriculum — 2/16/2010
By Anna Boyle / February 16, 2010
Changing your feelings about your best friend and when your besties hate your beau
 
Smart Museum joins The Darker Side
By Jessen O’Brien / February 16, 2010
The Darker Side of Light displays darker works from the 19th-century
Awaiting brave students, FOTA’s mic stands open
By Jessen O’Brien / February 16, 2010
FOTA holds will be hosting Open Mic Night at Hallowed Grounds next Thursday.
When The Ring and Monty Python collide: The Greatest Porno, EVER!!
By Blair Thornburgh / February 16, 2010
Gorilla Tango's Porno proves lethally explicit
 
BJ Novak takes Mandel stage with a trash bin and Shy Puppet
By Michelle Welch / February 16, 2010
BJ Novak made a good use of props and wordplay in his performance last Friday at Mandel Hall.
 
The Little Man
By Alex Gleckman / February 9, 2010
B. J. Novak, actor, comedian, and writer for The Office, models for the cameras with Shy Puppet, his quiet companion. The performance took place last Saturday in Mandel Hall.
Hardcore Curriculum—2/09/2010
By Anna Boyle / February 9, 2010
Letting your friend down gently and tips for getting the ladies
Chicago Manual of Style—2/09/2010
By Jessica Hester / February 9, 2010
Deals on designer duds at the click of a mouse
Gorilla Tango plays the name game with Jessica Presents
By Will Sims / February 9, 2010
Jessica Presents...Yet Again is a hilarious improv sketch show, but sometimes the acting is lacking
Bad Plus trio jazzes up Mandel Hall
By Marcella De Laurentiis / February 9, 2010
Audience members were blown away by the band's performance on Friday night
 
NSIT employee hatches Fish fantasy
By Yasmeen Hussain / February 9, 2010
James Kennedy’s debut novel The Order of Odd-Fish came out in December. The Maroon had the opportunity to talk to him about his life and the inspiration for some of his characters.
Dear John: Return to sender
By Michelle Welch / February 5, 2010
A predictable drama presents a soulless tragedy.
Just in time for midterms, UT serves up some schaudenfraude
By Jessen O’Brien / February 5, 2010
UT makes suffering students feel a little better with stories of pain and suffering.
Bayless’s Xoco
By Iliya Gutin / February 5, 2010
Small scale with big taste.
The Road Map to Lost
By Michelle Welch / February 5, 2010
Reflections on the season 6 premiere (SPOILER ALERT!) and a few predictions for what's to come.
The Road Map to Lost
By Michelle Welch / February 5, 2010
Reflections on the season 6 premiere (SPOILER ALERT!) and a few predictions for what's to come.
Limbaugh Lampooned
By Mae Rice / February 5, 2010
Second City channels satire into song.
Limbaugh Lampooned
By Mae Rice / February 5, 2010
Second City channels satire into song.
Searching for black identity beyond the Blue Door
By Jordan Larson / February 5, 2010
One man grapples with race, culture, and his own past.
DuSable’s Sisters teaches how to fight the good fight
By Alexandria Pabich / February 2, 2010
Freedom's Sisters gives an interactive biographical experience on African American women who have changed America
 
Hardcore Curriculum—2/2/2010
By Anna Boyle / February 2, 2010
What to do when your gaydar is broken and after you kissed a girl, and liked it
Chicago Manual of Style—2/2/2010
By Jessica Hester / February 2, 2010
Simplifying the hunt for vintage with Avant Gaudy
 
Dennehy’s dramatic transformation dominates one-act duo
By Ilana Kowarski / February 2, 2010
Brian Dennehy plays two wildly different characters in Goodman Theatre's double feature, Hughie and Krapp's Last Tape
 
Family matters in Steppenwolf’s Brother/Sister trifecta
By Jessica Hester / February 2, 2010
The Brother/Sister plays at Steppenwolf's Upstairs Theatre has deeply resonant characters that tell a story of a family through three different plays.
 
UChi-Con celebrates myth and Miyazaki
By Ben Sigrist / January 29, 2010
The Japanese Animation Society hosts its annual convention.
2nd Story comes down to First Floor Theater for night of storytelling
By Blair Thornburgh / January 29, 2010
A play within a party.
 
With Sunday evening show, Friday Night Boys threaten the space-time continuum
By Keegan Hankes / January 29, 2010
Citing Blink 182 and Sum 41, Boys stay true to pop-punk influences
STD (Stuff to Do)—January 29 to February 4
By Christine Yang / January 29, 2010
Hunger Banquet for Haiti,the Berlin Philharmonic Wind Quintet, and the 2010 Midwest Independent Film Festival
Chicago Manual of Style—1/26/2010
By Jessica Hester / January 26, 2010
Fashion fix, at the click of a mouse
Hardcore Curriculum—1/26/2010
By Anna Boyle / January 26, 2010
When friends become "that couple" and waiting for your girlfriend to dump her other boyfriend
There’s nothing Extraordinary about saccharine optimism
By Michelle Welch / January 26, 2010
Harrison Ford's new film is a melodrama worthy of Lifetime.
 
One actress captures Didion’s private suffering
By Blair Thornburgh / January 26, 2010
“You sit down to dinner, and life as you know it ends.” So says Joan Didion in the Chicago premiere of The Year of Magical Thinking, a one-woman play performed by Mary Beth Fisher at the Court Theatre.
 
Time stands still in Fischer’s Ghost Town
By Sharan Shetty / January 26, 2010
Andreas Fischer's detailed portraits will be on display at the Hyde Park Art Center until April 18.
From doctors to space cowboys, Ford still kicks ass
By Michelle Welch / January 22, 2010
The Maroon interviews the man, the myth, the legend.
 
Student filmmakers see bright future for their feature
By Jessen O’Brien / January 22, 2010
What happens when your summer project is to make a movie.
Improvised Simpsons provides impressive imitations, irreverent in-jokes
By Jonathan Grabinsky / January 22, 2010
The Simpsons reimagined on stage.
Hunger Strike—01/22/10
By Iliya Gutin / January 22, 2010
The Tao of Michael Pollan
Armantrout balances poetic theory with Gaga
By Mattias Darrow / January 22, 2010
Armantrout will hold a discussion on poetics at 1:00 p.m. today in Rosenwald 405.
Yours, Hypothetically—01/21/2010
By Rory Squire / January 22, 2010
Rory gives Dante hell.
 
Rockefeller helps students find That Gargoyle on their shoulder
By Marcella De Laurentiis / January 15, 2010
Gargoyles invade Rockefeller.
 
Dombrowski discovers wisdom in the Reg: not in the books, but on the walls
By Keegan Hankes / January 15, 2010
Quinn Dombrowski discusses her documentation of Reg graffiti.
STD (Stuff To Do)—10/14/09 to 10/20/09
By Christine Yang / January 15, 2010
Enjoy the CUSA show "Xiang" and check out Chicago Public Radio's block party
 
Hardcore Curriculum — 1/12/2010
By Anna Boyle / January 12, 2010
Getting rid of that pesky v-card
 
Shteynshleyger allows a limited glimpse into her history with solo exhibit
By Kate Koster / January 12, 2010
History and documentary are simultaneously explored in the Renaissance Society's new photography exhibit.
U of C students kick Spark Notes to the curb with Twitterature
By Ben Sigrist / January 12, 2010
The Maroon sat down with authors Emmett Rensin and Alexander Aciman to discuss how, exactly, the book came about.
 
Top 10 Films of the Decade
By Michelle Welch / January 8, 2010
Michelle Welch gives us her picks
Too Much Happiness has all the beauty without the brains
By Dani Brecher / January 8, 2010
By the end of the collection, the reader is left to wonder what Munro might accomplish if she were to try her hand at writing stories about women who suffer less.
Yours, Hypothetically—01/08/2009
By Rory Squire / January 8, 2010
What if pop singers followed Dan Brown's path?
Bottom Chef
By Iliya Gutin / January 8, 2010
Watch and learn from kitchen catastrophes
With Steppenwolf’s Buffalo, don’t expect to get nickeled and dimed
By Ruben Montiel / January 8, 2010
Mamet's new play explores the consequences of relentless pursuits
Girl Talk throws a party at Mandel Hall
By Hayley Lamberson / December 27, 2009
A review of MAB's fall concert
French’s Saboteur takes WWII to the streets of Paris
By Ben Sigrist / December 16, 2009
The Chicago Maroon interviewed lead developer Tom French of the new video game the Saboteur.
 
Reitman leaves the connection between adulthood and maturity Up in the Air
By Michelle Welch / December 15, 2009
Jason Reitman employs the help of George Clooney, in one of his most personal roles to date, to tell a tale of family and maturity.
Almost everything is wrong with Everybody’s Fine
By Michelle Welch / December 15, 2009
This family drama is as thoughtless as it's characters.
Juno’s Reitman finds himself an unintentional existentialist
By Michelle Welch / December 15, 2009
The Chicago Maroon participated in a round table interview with director Jason Reitman, whose new film Up in the Air is now in theaters.
Part 2 of the Peter Jackson interview
By Michelle Welch / December 14, 2009
This is part 2 of the Chicago Maroon's interview with Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson
Peter Jackson shows a knack for the supernatural
By Michelle Welch / December 14, 2009
The director discusses his career and his new film, the Lovely Bones.
Part 2 of the Columbus Short interview
By Michelle Welch / December 14, 2009
This is part 2 of the Chicago Maroon's interview with Armored star Columbus Short.
Short goes from Stomp to Hollywood stardom
By Michelle Welch / December 14, 2009
Columbus Short has risen through the ranks from one of Britney Spear's choreographers to starring in his new film Armored. The Chicago Maroon participated in a round table interview with him earlier this month.
Voices Top 5
By Ben Sigrist / December 3, 2009
Voices gets critical of the past year, giving you our Top 5 picks for Music, Movies, Songs, Guilty Pleasures, Fashion Trends, and Obama Merchandise.
Top 5 Movies
By Michelle Welch / December 1, 2009
The ones you will be talking about years from now.
Top 5 Worst Fashion Trends
By Mitch Montoya / December 1, 2009
Avoid them like the plague.
Top 5 Guilty Pleasure Songs
By Hayley Lamberson / December 1, 2009
You know you love them.
Top 5 Obama Merchandise
By Kate Shepherd / December 1, 2009
The only way to prove that you were there when it all happened.
 
Top 5 Songs
By Yusuf Siddiquee / December 1, 2009
The tunes that get stuck in your head over and over again.
 
Top 5 Movie Trailers
By Ben Sigrist / December 1, 2009
Regardless of whether the films were good or not, the trailers made you want to see them.
Dean’s Titus tells a bloody tale of modern violence
By Jessen O’Brien / December 1, 2009
The Dean's Men are putting a modern twist on Shakespeare's ulta-violent Titus Andronicus for their autumn production. The play begins Thursday, December 3.
 
Decoding Doc’s Programming Process
By Jessen O’Brien / December 1, 2009
Ever wonder how Doc Films comes up with their quarterly film schedule? Well now you can find out, and maybe even get involved in the process yourself.
Strive for simplicity this Thanksgiving
By Iliya Gutin / November 20, 2009
Avoiding the horrors of Turducken and its affiliates
STD (Stuff to Do) November 20 – November 26
By Christine Yang / November 20, 2009
This is Versailles plays in Chicago and The Thanksgiving Parade makes it march down State Street.
UT creates a lively Cemetery full of joy and sorrow
By Jessen O’Brien / November 20, 2009
UT plays the junkyard blues in its own telling of Arrabal's irreverent drama.
The guilty pleasures of sparkly vampirism
By Michelle Welch / November 20, 2009
Meyer's insufferable dialog doesn't sound better than it reads.
 
Cage is a loose cannon cop on the edge…again
By Andreas Nahas / November 20, 2009
Nicolas Cage's performance meets all your expectations, and then some, in Werner Herzog's newest film.
thenewno2 hops from London to L.A.
By Kate Shepherd / November 17, 2009
thenewno2--fronted by George Harrison's son--had a backstage discussion with the Maroon about rainy weather and L.A.'s traffic apocalypse.
U of C alum aims for National Book Award
By Yasmeen Hussain / November 17, 2009
Bonnie Jo Campbell (B.A. '84) is nominated for her novel American Salvage.
Person L rises from pet project to underground hit
By Cristina Carrazza / November 17, 2009
The Chicago Maroon spoke to the band about Fugazi and their other influences
UT’s Fefu forges a femininity of her own
By Katie Tu / November 17, 2009
Fefu and her Friends delves deep into the play's ideas about insecurity and humanity
 
Hardcore Curriculum—11/17/2009
By Anna Boyle / November 17, 2009
Asking your girlfriend for anal sex and why every guy you meet sucks
Chicago Manual of Style—11/17/2009
By Jessica Hester / November 17, 2009
Snag thoughtful gifts for friends and family
Scene That: The Box
By Michelle Welch / November 16, 2009
Michelle Welch and Jessen O'Brien get to the bottom of The Box.
STD (Stuff To Do)—11/13/09 through 11/19/09
By Christine Yang / November 15, 2009
Learn how to procrastinate the green way and catch the Chicago Jazz Philharmonic chamber group at I-House.
Yours, Hypothetically—11/13/2009
By Rory Squire / November 13, 2009
Rory assesses the different factions of Twilight fandom.
 
If you want some Aqua Teen, Lakeshore will give it to ya
By Jessen O’Brien / November 13, 2009
The show's creators talk about the artistic process and their upcoming performance in Chicago.
Victors write history: Plouffe records Obama campaign strategy
By Ruben Montiel / November 13, 2009
David Plouffe talks about what it takes to win a presidential election.
Cerqua combines classic and contemporary in fall concert
By Christy Perera / November 13, 2009
Attention to acting elevates Rivera's intimate performance.
 
Chicago Manual of Style—11/10/2009
By Jessica Hester / November 10, 2009
On the prowl for Stylish students
DEEP shows audiences how to become a hardened hipster
By Jordan Larson / November 10, 2009
Gorilla Tango's Musical DEEP is too heavy on the satire, too light on provoking thought
Personal Encounters gets to the core of communities
By Mitch Montoya / November 10, 2009
The Hyde Park Art Center's new exhibit, Close Encounters, takes an unusually interactive approach to showcasing art
Student filmmakers race the clock
By Katie Tu / November 10, 2009
Chicago IN:60 Seconds video contest asks where Chicago's heart lies
Hardcore Curriculum—11/10/09
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / November 10, 2009
How to talk and not talk about your sex life with both friends and family.
Lascivious Ball unfolds the pin-ups
By Alexandria Pabich / November 10, 2009
After its revival last year, the Ball continues strong.
Scene That: Amelia
By Michelle Welch / November 7, 2009
Amelia Earhart's new biopic crashes and burns. Michelle Welch and Jessen O'Brien give the damage report.
Forrest Gump director concocts 3-D Carol characters
By Michelle Welch / November 6, 2009
Robert Zemeckis confesses to his obsession with time travel.
Model shows that ideas and idealism shape Chicago
By Ruben Montiel / November 6, 2009
The Chicago Architecture Foundation's exhibit examines the ideological conception of the city.
Japanese puppeteer returns to campus
By Salom Teshale / November 6, 2009
Nori Sawa combines Czech and Japanese influences in his puppetry.
STD (Stuff to Do) November 6 – November 12
By Christine Yang / November 6, 2009
Werner Herzog's new film comes to campus early and Howard Zinn speaks about The People's History.
Chicago Manual of Style—11/3/2009
By Jessica Hester / November 3, 2009
When fear imposes on fashion
Hardcore Curriculum—11/3/2009
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / November 3, 2009
What to do when you're privy to your roommate's sex life
Queer comedy takes center stage at Reeling Film Fest
By Mitch Montoya / November 3, 2009
Reeling's 28th annual Gay and Lesbian Film Festival highlights humor in the face of recent setbacks in the struggle for equality.
Forget Twilight: Sci-fi tradition holds strong
By Liat Spiro / November 3, 2009
The sci-fi and fantasy genre seems to have been in decline recently, but these authors are keeping it strong
 
UT shows that these Things take time
By Ben Sigrist / November 3, 2009
UT's 6th week show The Shape of Things addressing the uncertainty of the future and how people change over time.
Craving Bacon? Gastronomy gets gluttonous
By Iliya Gutin / October 30, 2009
Bacon is the herald of culinary indulgence.
Asian hip-hop reaches its Summit at the U of C
By Ben Sigrist / October 30, 2009
The Asian Hip Hop Summit performs on campus this Saturday.
STD (Stuff to Do) 10/30/09 – 11/5/09
By Christine Yang / October 30, 2009
UT does Soc and film documents rabbits living inside the Berlin Wall.
Creepy Chicago: Hitting up the city’s haunted houses
By Michelle Welch / October 30, 2009
Michelle Welch braves The Fear and Chronicles of the Cursed all by her lonesome.
Brew up frightening fashion in a fix
By Jessica Hester / October 30, 2009
Cheap, crafty costumes for the time crunched
Yours, Hypothetically—10/27/2009
By Rory Squire / October 27, 2009
To The Girl in the Reg Whom I Spied Hiding Her Danielle Steel Behind Proust
Freak’s fact-checking fails on climate change
By Kyle Gracey / October 27, 2009
Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner's new book Superfreakonomics gets it wrong when it comes to global warming, but fulfills its purpose in other chapters.
Siskel Center revisits tragic romance
By Andreas Nahas / October 27, 2009
All That Heaven Allows, Far from Heaven, and Ali:Fear Eats the Soul will all be showing at the Gene Siskel Film Center this November.
Hardcore Curriculum—10/27/2009
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / October 27, 2009
Cracking the sacred bro-code in the sake of getting some action
Chicago Manual of Style—10/27/2009
By Jessica Hester / October 27, 2009
Fashion films for rainy days.
Scene That: Where The Wild Things Are
By Michelle Welch / October 26, 2009
Michelle Welch and Elisabeth Sanders give their take on Spike Jonze's "Where The Wild Things Are."
STD (Stuff to D0) 10/23/09 – 10/29/09
By Christine Yang / October 23, 2009
Night of the mummies and the "Supreme Diva of Mexican Pop"
Amelia plays up pandering patriotism
By Michelle Welch / October 23, 2009
Amelia Earhart's fascinating and inspiring story is turned into a dull film.
 
Storm details Katrina’s lasting legacy
By Alexandria Pabich / October 23, 2009
Photographer Jane Fulton captures the devastation of Katrina in New Orlean's Lower Ninth Ward.
Play ’em off, Rock Cats: Acro-Cats celebrate feline fancy
By Jordan Larson / October 23, 2009
Chicago's most talented cats perform acrobatic feats and rock out.
Hardcore Curriculum—10/20/2009
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / October 20, 2009
Bromance and casual sex
Chicago Manual of Style—10/20/2009
By Jessica Hester / October 20, 2009
Behind blackface lies the ugly side of fashion
The Redmoon rises over Rockefeller with Hunchback revamp
By Ilana Kowarski / October 20, 2009
Redmoon Theater is bringing its critically-acclaimed re-imagining of The Hunchback of Notre Dame to Rockefeller Chapel.
 
Steppenwolf’s music animates Mango Street
By Jessen O’Brien / October 20, 2009
Incorporating lively music and numberous monologues, the Young Adult division of Steppenwolf Theatre puts on a faithful rendition of the classic Chicago novel.
Looking beyond the Life of the Mind, Kid Savant seeks electronic existence
By Mathias Darrow / October 20, 2009
Kid Savant is an electro-rock group from Chicago, with one of its band members majoring in political science here at the U of C. The Maroon discussed making it big and balancing academics and extra-curriculars with the drummer.
STD October 16-October 23
By Christine Yang / October 16, 2009
A dog show, pie eating contest, and Italian Heritage festival, among others
Rising through the ranks, Chicago natives make the Cut
By Cristina Carrazza / October 16, 2009
Rough Cut uses its Chicago heritage to create its own blues/rock sound, which has launched them into recognition.
The aims of Education: Doubtful minds in changing times
By Andreas Nahas / October 16, 2009
Strong acting, especially by the lead actress Carey Mulligan, and strong stylistic choices by director Lone Scherfig make An Education stand out among the numerous 60s throwbacks.
Festival highlights humor in the humanities
By Jessen O’Brien / October 16, 2009
The theme of this year's Chicago Humanities Festival is laughter and includes appearances from Tony Kushner and Matt Groening.
Style—October 13, 2009
By Jessica Hester / October 13, 2009
Marrying fashion with photography: Penn's lifelong legacy
Paranormal packs predictable horror premises
By Michelle Welch / October 13, 2009
The casual moviegoer without any foreknowledge of the film's production will get more mileage out of this tame offering than the seasoned horror buffs yawning in the aisles.
 
Hardcore—October 13, 2009
By Anna Boyle / October 13, 2009
Anna and Chris discuss Facebook relationship statuses and threesomes.
Trapped in commercial culture, Raven’s tragic Salesman thrives
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / October 13, 2009
Raven Theatre’s 60th Anniversary production of Salesman, though, renders it practically impossible to discount the vulnerable side of any character in the play.
DePaul graduate proves money is no matter for making movies
By Ilana Kowarski / October 13, 2009
Wetherbee is a local artist who has recently established the performance company You, Me, Them, Everybody, and works several jobs to support himself and his art—every spare cent he earns goes toward funding his creative projects, which include everything from podcasts to music videos to his current film, The Shuffle..
Goodman revamps vaudeville with kooky caper
By Ilana Kowarski / October 9, 2009
Filled with antiquated notions of love and humor, this production has a kind of tenderness that is rare in modern comedy, and makes you understand the incredible tenacity of cheerfulness through the Great Depression.
STD (Stuff to D0) 10/09/09 – 10/15/09
By Christine Yang / October 9, 2009
Creative Veganism, John Bolton, and A.V. Club
 
Chicago Film Festival
By Ruben Montiel / October 9, 2009
Students hoping to catch the latest films drawing Oscar buzz or to see movie stars in real life will be hard-pressed to find a better option this month, or even this year, than the Chicago International Film Festival (CIFF), which opened its 45th year last night..
Chris Rock talks Hair, there and everywhere
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / October 9, 2009
Comedian Chris Rock’s “passion project,” Good Hair, is a comedy-documentary that takes a closer look at a lucrative industry producing billions of dollars every year – African-American hairstyles.
Hardcore Curriculum—October 6, 2009
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / October 6, 2009
Anna and Chris discuss spending too much time with your significant other and pursuing a friend of a friend.
Chicago Manual of Style—October 6, 2009
By Jessica Hester / October 6, 2009
In France, stylish students get an "A" in fashion.
Examining exile: Polonia’s photo history
By Ben Rossi / October 6, 2009
The Renaissance Society's new exhibit featuring Polish artist Allan Sekula focuses on nearly all aspects of the Polish identity.
Texts take the stage at I-House with iO Theater
By Ben Sigrist / October 6, 2009
Using audience-generated text messages at their muse, Chicago's improv group iO Theater will be at the International House on Wednesday to perform Text Theater.
With paint and words, Wiliams examines her Windy City
By Mitch Montoya / October 6, 2009
Chicago native Amanda Williams investigates the Chicago area in her exhibit showing at the Three Peas Art Lounge.
STD (Stuff To Do)—10/02/09 to 10/08/09
By Christine Yang / October 4, 2009
Local markets, Rockefeller art, and Lil John with Whole Wheat Bread
Rockefeller takes turn as Little City art gallery
By Mitch Montoya / October 4, 2009
As a part of October’s Chicago Artists Month, artists from The Little City Foundation explore the humble circle in an exhibit aptly titled Unbroken now on display in Rockefeller Chapel.
Dubious discovery drives Steppenwolf’s original drama
By Dani Brecher / October 4, 2009
The contrapuntal structure of the play is almost symphonic, with each scene serving to amplify and complement those preceding and following.
Smart’s Heartland goes beyond corn and quilts
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / October 4, 2009
Heartland extends the common geographic definition of the “American heartland” to include areas such as Detroit and Chicago, encompassing both the Great Plains and the Mississippi Delta to present works of art that provide an unconventional insight into the lifestyle of these regions.
Coens’ Man fights more than a mid-life crisis
By Andreas Nahas / October 4, 2009
Despite the ambiguity of its ending, those who see the film for what it truly is will not be disappointed, as it is one the Coens’ best and deserves a spot alongside "Fargo" and "No Country for Old Men."
Taking it to the Max
By Michael Lipkin / October 4, 2009
Tucker Max is upfront about why he made "I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell," which he co-wrote and produced: He’s a narcissist on a power trip.
Hardcore Curriculum-September 21, 2009
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / September 22, 2009
Anna and Chris are back and are ready to give you advice on how to start your school year romances off right.
 
Snag stylish sundries at Randolph Market
By Jessica Hester / September 22, 2009
The Chicago Antique Market, located in the Randolph Street Market District, is anything but pricey and old-fashioned.
Tautou Triumphs in Fontaine’s Effortless Chanel
By Jingru Yang / September 22, 2009
Director Anne Fontaine's biopic of the iconic designer puts fashion on the back burner, putting its focus instead on Chanel's early romances.
Noah’s Ark Goes Green in Atwood’s Feminist Flood
By Dani Brecher / September 22, 2009
This year’s looming flu season brings along with it Margaret Atwood’s new novel The Year of the Flood to help feed our microbe-induced hysteria.
All’s fair in love and gore
By Ben Sigrist / September 21, 2009
Ben Sigrist gives his take on the summer's best films
Hardcore Curriculum — Top 5 Summer Flings to Avoid
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / June 2, 2009
Anna and Chris strictly scrutinize fleeting summer romance.
The Gadabout— Top 5 Chicago Outdoor Dining
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / June 2, 2009
From Old Town to Downtown, Chicago eateries are taking it to the streets.
Top 5 Summer Books
By Jingru Yang / June 2, 2009
Hemmingway gets revived, highly evolved bugs rule a sci-fi thriller, and American cuisine gets investigated.
 
Top 5 Summer Films
By Michelle Welch / June 2, 2009
Harry Potter finally sees the light of day, while Tarantino gives us his next bloody offering with Basterds.
Top 5 Chicago Music Events
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / June 2, 2009
Lollapalooza dominates with big names, while Pitchfork draws from the fringe. Other acts certainly hold their own.
Top 5 Chicago Summer Festivals
By Christine Yang / June 2, 2009
From debates to fireworks, all with plenty of food, here's what's going on around the town.
Modern wing guides us through Twombly’s Natural World
By Hayley Lamberson / May 29, 2009
Cy Twombly: The Natural World displays the artist’s contemporary paintings and sculptures from between 2000 and 2007. The exhibition divulges just enough context to make the works available to a wider audience but also lets them speak for themselves, giving each viewer his or her own understanding of Twombly’s Natural World..
 
Insanity haunts the women of The Walls
By Cheryl Luce / May 29, 2009
Written by veteran playwright Lisa Dillman, The Walls is the culmination of a five-year collaboration between artists investigating madness and creativity through words, design, and historical research. The result is nothing short of stunning.
Smart captures photography’s malleable reality
By Mitch Montoya / May 29, 2009
While most people are content to say their family portraits or 3x3 profile pictures represent who they really are, artists in the Smart Museum’s new exhibit, Malleable Likeness and the Photographic Portrait, beg to differ.
 
Post-apocalyptic shooter mutates gameplay from different genres
By Gerald Waddell / May 29, 2009
Combining moral dilemmas, platforming action, and an open-ended world, inFamous redefines the super hero game from the ground up, creating an exhilarating and unique experience.
STD (Stuff To Do)—5/29/08
By Christine Yang / May 29, 2009
Courting Condi, Beyond China: The Taming of the Shrew
Up deflated by pandering plot, unoriginal visuals
By Andreas Nahas / May 29, 2009
In Up, set for nationwide release today, Pixar delivers what is easily its worst film. 
Dean’s Shrew keeps the Bard on the edge
By Ruben Montiel / May 29, 2009
For those wanting to brush up on the Shakespeare behind their favorite romantic comedy, or for those wanting a show on a beautiful night al fresco, the Dean’s Men and The Taming of the Shrew are sure to please.
Alice and Giselle make perfect pair in UBallet spring show
By Ilana Kowarski / May 29, 2009
UBallet’s spring show mixes old and new, featuring standard and original student choreography, as well as telling two classic but very different stories.
Scene That: Terminator Salvation
By Ben Sigrist / May 26, 2009
Associate Voices Editor Ben Sigrist and Michelle Welch make mincemeat out of the latest installment in the Terminator series.
 
Be bold at the beach with shape-friendly suits
By Jessica Hester / May 22, 2009
Jessica takes us through this summer's seaside fashion for all sizes.
Court keeps it in the family with supernatural drama
By Mattias Darrow / May 22, 2009
The Piano Lesson is a true drama; any humor in it comes from the superb acting, not the script.
Coward caper gets dose of girl power with Elliott’s Virtue
By Dani Brecher / May 22, 2009
Stephan Elliott's Easy Virtue may be more Andre than Dom Perignon, but it still manages to deliver a pleasurable two hours.
 
UT’s reworked Orpheus myth spotlights tragic Eurydice
By Jessen O’Brien / May 22, 2009
While students prepare to say goodbye to campus life for a few months or for the rest of their lives, Eurydice serves as a reminder of the sorrow of loss—and offers hope of reconnection through love.
Scene That: Angels and Demons
By Ben Sigrist / May 22, 2009
Associate Voices editor Ben Sigrist and Michelle Welch review Ron Howard's "Angels and Demons" in the second installment of the VOICES movie review podcast.
Broken Social Scene and crew shatter expectations
By Jingru Yang / May 19, 2009
A review and slideshow from this weekend's Summer Breeze performances.
MacArthur Genius Dybek dishes out South Side stories
By Chase Weldon / May 19, 2009
With works such as The Coast of Chicago, Dybek is known for his ability to capture the essence of the city he was born and raised in. This Tuesday, he will read some of his most famous short stories at Swift Hall.
Hyde Park poets take to Poem Present podium
By Jessen O’Brien / May 19, 2009
Poem Present's UofChicagoland showcases upcoming poets from the Chicago (and University of Chicago) community.
Photo students’ diverse talents made Manifest at Columbia
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / May 19, 2009
Putting the best work of Columbia College’s graduating photography students on display, Manifest, Columbia College’s B.A./B.F.A. photography exhibition showcases a veritable kaleidoscope of student talent.
Palahniuk’s social satire sears, but characters leave us cold
By Ruben Montiel / May 19, 2009
Chuck Palahniuk's latest book, Pygmy, follows the well-tread path of biting social satire common to his novels, as it attacks the terrorism-fueled xenophobia peculiar to America.
Hardcore Curriculum — 5/19/09
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / May 19, 2009
Dormitory relationships and the gap between sexual and emotional satisfaction.
STD (Stuff To Do)—5/15/09 to 5/21/09
By Christine Yang / May 15, 2009
Dog parties, "dog"umentaries, and more.
With spectacle and song, Legally Blonde: The Musical, like, totally rests its case
By Mitch Montoya / May 15, 2009
Legally Blonde: The Musical is a lively production that reminds us of the power of blondes, the “bend and snap,” and believing in yourself.
Y Tu Mamá team’s soccer dramedy hits the post
By Brian White / May 15, 2009
Even though it lacks the coherent force of a more consistent drama/satire, the individual elements of the film, created by the same team who made Y Tu Mama Tambien, are sound.
Innovative Modern Wing gives cutting edge art fitting home
By Kate Shepherd / May 15, 2009
The Art Institute's new Modern Wing embodies the past, present, and future of Chicago’s artistic and architectural culture.
 
RBIM’s eclectic dance showcase sets spring in motion
By Marcella Delaurentiis / May 15, 2009
RBIM's spring show, Journey Through Dance, brings to Mandel Hall diverse dance styles including tap, hip hop, Irish, lyrical, belly dancing, and others not found elsewhere on campus.
Shortcuts—Meat Puppets
By Anjali Verghis / May 12, 2009
Despite its spotty originality, Sewn Together, the band’s 14th studio album seems to be missing more than just the distinct sound of their original drummer, Derrick Bostrom.
Hardcore Curriculum-5/12/09
By Anna Boyle / May 12, 2009
Questions about that promiscuous friend and about whether you should be asking us questions.
Shumate’s design sizes up fashion’s fascination with the petite
By Jessica Hester / May 12, 2009
Fourth-year Michal Lynn Shumate's "Gigantic Dress" is inspired, in part, by fashion's love of the tiny.
Modern Treasures puts gems of 20th century mass media photography on display
By Kate Shepherd / May 12, 2009
Drawing on the collections of Chicago collectors as well as the Museum’s own, the Art Institute’s new exhibit, Photography on Display: Modern Treasures, offers a good survey of early 20th-century photography as it evolved from a utilitarian medium to an art form.
 
Flat performances mar Menendian’s updated Gabler
By Rob Underwood / May 12, 2009
While Raven Theatre's modern setting and handful of excellent performances elevate Hedda Gabler above cloying melodrama, the poor turns by the two leads ultimately sink this ambitious adaptation.
Glasgow’s Mogwai rocks long and loud at Congress Theatre
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / May 12, 2009
Mogwai’s Barry Burns muses on drugs, his “bastard” band mates, and the meaning of “Xmas Steps.”
Scene That: The Merry Gentleman
By Michelle Welch / May 12, 2009
In Voices' new movie review podcast, Scene That, Michelle Welch and Ben Sigrist review Michael Keaton's new drama--and disagree about almost everything.
Stuff to Do (STD)—5/8/09 to 5/14/09
By Christine Yang / May 8, 2009
Kara Walker, Sci-Fi Spectacular, and Notorious—the Cary Grant version.
Gadabout—5/8/09
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / May 8, 2009
Chicago lays claim to at least twenty gastro-pubs, but the Bristol is one of the best.
Ibsen adaptation hampered by preachy dialogue
By Ilana Kowarski / May 8, 2009
Enemy of the People, Red Tape Theatre's adaptation of Henrik Ibsen's play, runs aground with stilted, didactic dialogue.
 
Goodman provides poor stage for Rock ‘n’ Roll rebellion
By Ben Sigrist / May 8, 2009
The Goodman Theatre's production of Tom Stoppard's Rock 'n' Roll asks whether the rock revolution was really as significant as it seemed.
Bottom-bound Cursive tweaks alt-rock formula
By Hayley Lamberson / May 8, 2009
Hailing from Omaha, NE, Cursive is known for its use of unusual and distinctive instruments. We talked to Cursive guitarist Matt Maginn about Omaha and Bright Eyes.
Wolverine claws its way to the top with gory good time
By Gerald Waddell / May 8, 2009
With X-Men Origins: Wolverine—Uncaged Edition, you can finally know what it feels like to (virtually) cut a man in two with metal alloy claws.
UT mixes dance, theater in Sidecar’s ballet of the banal
By Jessen O’Brien / May 8, 2009
Sidecar adds a little twist to the ordinary with its new dance performance.
 
Star Trek hits the big screen
By Michelle Welch / May 8, 2009
J.J. Abrams's Star Trek is a sophisticated space opera, redefining the Star Trek canon forever more.
 
Cutting down original Carmen proves no tragedy for COT
By Ilana Kowarski / May 5, 2009
With a spare set, modest costuming, and a small cast, the Chicago Opera Theater’s (COT) production of La Tragedie de Carmen compels its audience to focus on the pure beauty of the opera's music and story.
Hardcore Curriculum-5/05/09
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / May 5, 2009
Anna and Chris discuss sexual frustration over summer vacation and casual sex with a friend.
MoCP reveals urban planning’s rough edges, good intentions
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / May 5, 2009
As part of the Burnham Plan Centennial Committee’s year-long celebrations, the Museum of Contemporary Photography (MoCP) has brought together several artists known for their interest in urban issues in its new exhibit, The Edge of Intent.
Chicago Manual of Style—5/05/09
By Jessica Hester / May 5, 2009
May and June are major months for yard sales, which means great deals for students shopping on a budget. Here are some tips for rescuing furniture from the refuse pile.
Chick lit tropes crash The Divorce Party
By Dani Brecher / May 5, 2009
In her new novel The Divorce Party, Laura Dave works with good material and ideas but falls back on standard chick lit plotting in the end.
Keaton’s no Merry Gentleman with smart, gloomy drama
By Michelle Welch / May 5, 2009
Keaton's directorial debut is a respectable, smart, and unconventional film that does not rely on Hollywood gloss despite its big-name cast and crew.
 
Set, acting get high marks in TimeLine’s the History Boys
By Michelle Welch / May 5, 2009
The History Boys explores the relationships between students and their teachers and interrogates how our recollection of the past is often an indistinguishable mix of truth and lies.
With latest group show, Ren Society gets the silent treatment
By Mitch Montoya / May 5, 2009
The Renaissance Society's new group exhibit, aptly named Several Silences, explores how silence functions in society and the extent to which it affects everyday experiences.
Hardcore Curriculum-5/05/09
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / May 5, 2009
Anna and Chris discuss sexual frustration over summer vacation and casual sex with a friend.
 
With Macbeth, Babes’ blades make the cut
By Jingru Yang / May 1, 2009
Babes with Blades, the world’s only all-female stage combat theater troupe, manages to offer audiences a distinctive rendition of Macbeth simply by performing it in its original style—yet casting the battle-rich play solely with women.
Artropolis 2009 makes art look recession-proof
By Mitch Montoya / May 1, 2009
With this weekend’s Artropolis, Chicago’s annual art extravaganza, it appears that the art industry has come out of the economic crisis unscathed, or at least unbroken.
Williams paints from varied viewpoints
By Ilana Kowarski / May 1, 2009
The Hyde Park Art Center's Julian Williams: Recent Paintings compels the viewer to put himself in the shoes of another person and see the world through his or her eyes.
Chicago Cultural Center’s surreal Sorrows warns of environment’s swan song
By Kate Shepherd / May 1, 2009
For local artist Eleanor Speiss-Ferris, swans symbolize the natural world and express her indignation at human beings’ mistreatment of it.
STD (Stuff To Do)—5/1/09-5/7/09
By Christine Yang / May 1, 2009
The Piano Lesson, Sidecar, and Scarlet Roses.
 
Steinbeck gets timely update with no-frills, upbeat Men
By Jessen O’Brien / April 28, 2009
In light of the current recession, Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men couldn't be more relevant. Fortunately, Steppenwolf for Young Adults’ production allows audiences to experience the classic novel on another level.
 
Wilson’s poetry speaks nature’s enigmatic language
By Ilana Kowarski / April 28, 2009
Voices had the opportunity to interview Emily Wilson, an up-and-coming poet, and get her perspective on her own poetry and poetry in general before she read from her most recent anthology, Micrographia, this Thursday at Rosenwald Hall.
Hardcore Curriculum-4/28/09
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / April 28, 2009
Questions about issues with porn and interfering in an abusive relationship.
Chicago Manual of Style—04/28/09
By Jessica Hester / April 28, 2009
What are the standards for men’s fashion? The question becomes even more mind-boggling when it comes to dressing for spring and summer temperatures. Ultimately, it seems that looking great is a matter of self-confidence and intuition.
Signal’s stark schoolhouse shocker Jean Brodie makes the grade
By Christian Wentling / April 24, 2009
Thanks to its no-frills narrative, the Signal Ensemble Theatre’s dramatic production of The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, directed by Ronan Marrow, lays bare the unsettling forces at work in the story.
Jordano offers gritty portrait of South Side’s many-sided Faith
By Mitch Montoya / April 24, 2009
In Articles of Faith: Photographs by Dave Jordano, the artist depicts the religious institutions of the South Side, illustrating the undying sense of faith and community that members of churches possess.
Shortcuts—Asher Roth
By Emale Gray / April 24, 2009
Asher Roth's debut rap album Asleep in the Bread Aisle is caught somewhere between a motivational speech and Lady Gaga’s drunken anthem “Just Dance.”
Shortcuts—Branford Marsalis Quartet
By Ruben Montiel / April 24, 2009
The Branford Marsalis Quartet is one of the tightest groups of jazz musicians working today, and the Quartet’s new release, Metamorphosen, is a technical, if not always subtle, tour de force.
STD (Stuff to Do)—April 24 through April 30
By Christine Yang / April 24, 2009
Beyonce, Britney Spears, and Dance Marathon are highlights of the week.
Rooted in politics, Violet gets buried in its own agenda
By Ben Sigrist / April 21, 2009
Although mixing political messages with movies can yield huge rewards, American Violet's plot rarely rises above the simplicity of a bullet-pointed political message.
Goodman’s ghastly Ghostwritten mars Iizuka’s magic
By Ilana Kowarski / April 21, 2009
Playwright Naomi Iizuka fills Ghostwritten with magic, but her trite, contrived script, illogical plot, and hackneyed characters fail to enchant her audience even when they want to be enchanted.
Arrested talent keeps hope alive for Fox’s so-so Shut Up
By Ruben Montiel / April 21, 2009
Sit Down, Shut Up is an irreverent series that borders on being good, but doesn’t quite get there yet.
Hardcore Curriculum—4/21/09
By Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez / April 21, 2009
Questions about gay/ straight friendships, oral sex, and the loud couple next door.
Get fresh this spring with functional, fashionable footwear
By Jessica Hester / April 21, 2009
I plan my whole outfit from head to ankle. But when it comes to fashionable footwear, I have trouble putting my best foot forward.
STD (Stuff To Do) 4/17/09-4/23/09
By Christine Yang / April 18, 2009
The Blackhawks, Wong Fu, and Chris Matthews
 
Chicago Latino Film Festival reaches beyond Hispanic Hollywood
By Ruben Montiel / April 17, 2009
The 25th Annual Chicago Latino Film Festival proves there is much more to Latino film than what American audiences have seen so far.
Wong lands at U of C for Rockefeller Cuckoo
By Jessen O’Brien / April 17, 2009
Kristina Wong, a multi-talented artist and Center for the Study of Race, Politics and Culture’s artist-in-residence, has come to the U of C to lead an acting workshop and perform her latest solo show, Wong Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.
Disney dishes dirt on race, drug laws in Violet
By Ben Sigrist / April 17, 2009
In American Violet, director Tim Disney exposes the biases inherent in the legal system. VOICES had the chance to interview the director about the film.
 
Sita stirs up Ramayana, modern romance to the tune of ’20s jazz
By Madelyn Freed / April 17, 2009
Using an unusual array of animation styles and the music from the 1920s jazz artist Annette Hanshaw, Paley reveals something funny, beautiful, and heartbreaking in Sita Sings the Blues.
Inch measures up with gender-bending glam
By Nora Sorena Casey / April 17, 2009
The story of a Berlin-born transsexual glam-rocker fascinates in its willingness to blur gender boundaries, and in its harsh depiction of society's distortions of relationships.
 
U of C prof starts an outdoor, cross-cultural Conversation
By Ilana Kowarski / April 14, 2009
Curated by University of Chicago art history professor Wu Hung, A Conversation with Chicago: Contemporary Sculptures from China exposes a wide audience to contemporary Chinese art.
Hardcore Curriculum-4/14/09
By Chris Chavez / April 14, 2009
Hardcore Curriculum is the Chicago Maroon’s new sex and relationship advice column, written by Anna Boyle and Chris Chavez.
Chicago Manual of Style—04/14/09
By Jessica Hester / April 14, 2009
Vogue’s annual “Shape” issue fails to register as anything other than a pejorative, perfunctory nod to political correctness.
Fielding offers an emotional look at the life of blind children in Mexico City
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / April 14, 2009
Chicago-based photographer Jed Fielding explores what the eyes of the blind reveal in Look At Me: Photographs from Mexico City, a series of photographs of blind children in Mexico’s capital.
In style and substance, Parks photocopies Office’s approach
By Matt Barnum / April 14, 2009
The Office’s fingerprints are all over Parks and Recreation, and no one has bothered to wipe them off.
Prog-rock pedigree and lengthy improv will make U-Melt
By Rob Underwood / April 14, 2009
U-Melt combines exhilarating and fast-paced guitar riffs with a steady but infectious rhythm section. VOICES spoke with keyboardist Zac Lasher, who discussed everything from the band’s current tour to their upcoming album.
STD (Stuff to Do)—April 10 through April 16
By Christine Yang / April 10, 2009
All American Rejects, Alice in Wonderland, and the Reverend Jesse Jackson.
Gadabout—Hyde Park Barbecue and Bakery
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / April 10, 2009
While the Hyde Park Barbecue and Bakery—formerly Orly's—serves up some winning dishes, it's still a good idea to look outside of Hyde Park for good 'cue.
 
Works on Paper renders compelling sketch of 20th century artistic innovation
By Kate Shepherd / April 10, 2009
The Art Institute's Modern and Contemporary Works on Paper is a remarkable prelude to the opening of the museum's new modern wing.
 
Works on Paper renders compelling sketch of 20th century artistic innovation
By Kate Shepherd / April 10, 2009
The Art Institute's Modern and Contemporary Works on Paper is a remarkable prelude to the opening of the museum's new modern wing.
Partners in crime Hill and Rogen churn out mall cop disaster
By Michelle Welch / April 10, 2009
Sometimes a movie is so abysmally bad that you just have to wonder: How did this get made? Observe and Report is such a movie.
Partners in crime Hill and Rogen churn out mall cop disaster
By Michelle Welch / April 10, 2009
Sometimes a movie is so abysmally bad that you just have to wonder: How did this get made? Observe and Report is such a movie.
Chicago Manual of Style—04/07/09
By Jessica Hester / April 7, 2009
While traveling has its problems, with a little organization and light packing, you can at least arrive to your destination with style and sanity.
Ford Center’s Rent offers a silver lining to recession woes with triple-threat talent
By Jessen O’Brien / April 7, 2009
The Broadway musical transforms common problems with rent and relationships into an entertaining performance with members from the original cast.
 
Landau conjures modern magic in The Tempest
By Ruben Montiel / April 7, 2009
Director Tina Landau, a member of the Steppenwolf ensemble, gives us an immensely watchable iteration of the 400-year-old Shakespeare comedy.
Student-curated Cliff proves Westermann was a real Pal
By Janice Lee / April 7, 2009
The Smart Museum's new exhibit, Your Pal, Cliff is a unique retrospective of the art of H.C. Westermann—a renowned carpenter and artist. The collection shows the way artists apply their artistic instincts outside of the studio.
Aussie songstress breaks into U.S. music scene with new tour
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / April 7, 2009
Australia native Missy Higgins is an up-and-coming singer touring the United States with novelist Harlan Coben. She took time before her April 7th performance at Wilmette Theatre to talk to the Maroon.
SASA Show 2009
By Shahzad Ahsan / April 7, 2009
Highlights from the South Asian Students' Association's cultural show last Saturday night in Mandel Hall.
Shortcut—Keri Hilson’s In a Perfect World…
By Emale Gray / April 3, 2009
After writing for Britney Spears, Keri Hilson successfully traverses the border between producer/songwriter and recording artist.
STD (Stuff To Do)—4/3/09 to 4/9/09
By Christine Yang / April 3, 2009
Morrisey, Slumdog, and a boxing tournament are some of the highlights for this week.
Roller coaster romance jostles Adventureland’s hapless characters
By Michelle Welch / April 3, 2009
Greg Mottola’s Adventure- land succeeds as a heartfelt “coming of age” comedy precisely because of its focus on the characters, who are flawed, genuine young adults confronting for the first time real adult issues.
MCA’s Universe shows green side of Fuller
By Mitch Montoya / April 3, 2009
A self- proclaimed “anticipatory design scientist,” Buckminster Fuller dreamed of a world where beautiful designs would combine with sustainable building plans to create the homes of the future.
Mouret gives pensive answer to Shall We Kiss?
By Ben Rossi / April 3, 2009
Although weighed down by colorless dialogue and rather forced farce, Emmanuel Mouret's French film Shall We Kiss makes up in romance what it lacks in comedy.
Rourke’s Twelfth Night set to make a splash at CST
By Lisbeth Redfield / April 3, 2009
A preview performance of CST's Twelfth Night, one of Shakespeare’s most popular plays and best gender-bending comedies, promises a goodhearted production that will bring spring fun back after a gloomy Chicago winter.
Shortcuts—Kelly Clarkson’s All I Ever Wanted
By Emale Gray / March 15, 2009
Appealing lyrics and production make All I Ever Wanted a welcome improvement over Clarkson's last album, My December.
St. Pat’s events offer festive relief from finals
By Hayley Lamberson / March 15, 2009
Even though St. Patrick's Day lands smack dab in the middle of finals week this year, that doesn't mean you can't pull out at least most of the stops to celebrate.
Bizarre thriller relates Dickens’ last decade through eyes of rival novelist Collins
By Dani Brecher / March 13, 2009
Drood, a fictionalized account of the last years of Dickens’s life, is an enjoyable, if overly long, thriller, complete with cameos from famous literary figures, practitioners of Egyptian occultism, and denizens of an underground city in the sewers of London.
 
Gondry and crew capture Tokyo life’s excitement, isolation
By Ben Sigrist / March 11, 2009
TOKYO!, a collaboration between Michel Gondry, Leos Carax, and Bong Joon-ho, captures the essential spirit of the iconic city with dazzling visuals.
 
Gondry and crew capture Tokyo life’s excitement, isolation
By Ben Sigrist / March 11, 2009
TOKYO!, a collaboration between Michel Gondry, Leos Carax, and Bong Joon-ho, captures the essential spirit of the iconic city with dazzling visuals.
Chicago Manual of Style—3/10/09
By Jessica Hester / March 10, 2009
Chicago weather is notoriously unpredictable. It might be sunny one day, and snowing the next. Spring’s fashion forecast is just as polarized: while some looks are fresh, others are better left buried under a foot of snow.
Words & Guitar: Replace the University of Chicago
By Supriya Sinhababu / March 10, 2009
If the University of Chicago were a band, it’d be the Replacements. Like the kids here, the Replacements had obvious talent; yet they constructed a grandiose loser persona for themselves, and could disappear behind it at will.
Words & Guitar: Replace the University of Chicago
By Supriya Sinhababu / March 10, 2009
If the University of Chicago were a band, it’d be the Replacements. Like the kids here, the Replacements had obvious talent; yet they constructed a grandiose loser persona for themselves, and could disappear behind it at will.
Halo Wars won’t blow you away, but it still packs a punch
By Gerald Waddell / March 10, 2009
Despite the frustrating camera, lack of hot keys, mediocre story, and inaccessible multiplayer, Halo Wars is simply a lot of fun.
University librarian finds stories in the stacks
By Jessen O’Brien / March 10, 2009
University of Chicago librarian Frances McNamara published Death at the Fair, a murder mystery set during the World’s Columbian Exposition of 1893. The Maroon sat down with McNamara to discuss her work and plans for the future.
University librarian finds stories in the stacks
By Jessen O’Brien / March 10, 2009
University of Chicago librarian Frances McNamara published Death at the Fair, a murder mystery set during the World’s Columbian Exposition of 1893. The Maroon sat down with McNamara to discuss her work and plans for the future.
Standout voices round out Idol’s solid top 13
By Sara Jerome / March 10, 2009
American Idol's top 13 are a pretty strong bunch, despite a wide range of vocal ability and star potential.
 
Watchmen finally hits the big screen
By Michelle Welch / March 10, 2009
Watchmen is simultaneously difficult and easy to love. It’s simple to love for those dedicated fans whose dream has finally come true, but for the casual moviegoer, Watchmen could be a tough sell.
STD (Stuff to Do)—March 6 to March 12
By Christine Yang / March 6, 2009
David Archuleta, Dean Wareham, and the Dillinger Four.
Words & Guitar: Out of step with the world
By Supriya Sinhababu / March 6, 2009
Sometimes what’s superlatively crazy isn’t the stuff artists do when they’re high. It’s the stuff they can do with the complete absence of chemical help that’s truly insane.
Student composers to get world-class debut at Mandel Hall tonight
March 6, 2009
This year, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra held a competition to determine which student works would be performed in one of its public performances at Mandel Hall. Chicago Maroon talks to the two winning composers.
 
Student composers to get world-class debut at Mandel Hall tonight
By Erik Lokensgard / March 6, 2009
This year, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra held a competition to determine which student works would be performed in one of its public performances at Mandel Hall. Chicago Maroon talks to the two winning composers.
 
Woodbury channels salty stripper in Steppenwolf’s Reese
By Mitch Montoya / March 6, 2009
Heather Woodbury's one-person play, The Last Days of Desmond “Nani” Reese: A Stripper’s History of the World, is a hilarious journey through the life of a foul-mouthed 108-year-old stripper.
 
Combo of camp, satire make Urinetown golden
By Ben Rossi / March 6, 2009
UT's Urinetown, directed by Jonathan Berry, imagines a world where water is so scarce that private toilets have become a thing of the past.
Chan brings together Scalia, de Sade in whores
By Rob Underwood / March 3, 2009
Paul Chan's artwork breaks down the distinctions between politics and aesthetics with economy and alacrity.
 
Cent-savvy spring showcase proves MODA’s mind on the money
By Jessica Hester / March 3, 2009
This spring's MODA fashion show proves that fashion doesn't have to recede with the economy.
Boyle builds juicy melodrama on Wright’s fickle foundations
By Dani Brecher / March 3, 2009
T.C. Boyle creates a beautifully written potboiler full of of sex, revenge, and beautiful language.
 
Redtwist’s clever Goat brings bestiality into American home
By Madelyn Freed / March 3, 2009
Redtwist Theatre's The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia? packs an emotional wallop for the beast-curious.
Goodfellas left out of Gomorrah’s brutal world
By Marcella Delaurentiis / March 3, 2009
Matteo Garrone's Gomorrah offers an intimate look into a world where every day is a struggle for survival.
Stuff To Do (STD) 2/27/09—3/4/09
By Christine Yang / February 27, 2009
Marsalis, Motet and Fleetwood Mac.
Words & Guitar – Warning: Our band could be your life
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 27, 2009
Parents should be afraid of music, but for the right reasons.
The Gadabout—Handlebar
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / February 27, 2009
This trendy bar and grill features popular American cuisine with a vegetarian twist and a superb beer selection.
Chicago librarian conjures classic fairy tales with a twist in Serendipity Market
By MaryBeth Gronek / February 27, 2009
Penny Blubaugh's debut novel may be about fairy tales and magic, but it comes from a very real concern for the indifference of modern people to the importance of storytelling.
 
With new costumes and choreography, the slipper fits for UBallet’s Cinderella
By Mitch Montoya / February 27, 2009
UBallet's adaptation of Prokofiev's Cinderella promises to breathe new life into the classic fairy tale.
 
Oliver’s British invasion conquers Mandel Hall
By Asher Klein / February 24, 2009
Daily Show correspondent John Oliver’s brand of newsy British humor, on brilliant display at Mandel Hall Saturday night, has made him a favorite of the fake news show and has played a big part in its revival.
Phillips hopes to connect students with their muses
By Nora Sorena Casey / February 24, 2009
Before arriving on campus, Sherry Poet-in-Residence Carl Phillips spoke in a phone interview about how he teaches poetry and where classic and contemporary life intersect.
 
Fresh set and translation bear fruit in Strawdog’s Orchard
By Nora Sorena Casey / February 24, 2009
Modernity meets the madness of turn-of-the-century Russia in Strawdog Theatre Company’s production of Anton Chekhov’s Cherry Orchard.
 
Fans rejoice: Street Fighter IV still kicking after series’ decade-long hiatus
By Gerald Waddell / February 24, 2009
Prepare for an intense, balls-to-the-wall, beat-down experience, as Capcom’s Street Fighter IV will hand you your rear-end on a silver Hadouken platter.
Schwimmer and other notables go to Town with Thornton Wilder’s drama
By Ilana Kowarski / February 24, 2009
If you liked David Schwimmer as Ross in Friends, then you’ll love him as George in Lookingglass’s production of Thornton Wilder’s Our Town.
From revolution to postwar period, Miradas gazes into Mexico’s mosaic past
By Mitch Montoya / February 24, 2009
Miradas uses the Spanish language's two definitions of the title to give a glimpse at an immense collection of Mexican art in a truly captivating way.
MoCP takes photos to third dimension
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / February 24, 2009
PhotoDimensional looks to subtly destabilize the notion of photographic truth by exploring the effects on perception when 3-D forms are represented in 2-D photographs.
 
Chicago Manual of Style—February 24, 2009
By Jessica Hester / February 24, 2009
The 2009 Oscars: Learn a lesson from star styles.
Stuff To Do (STD) 2/20/09—2/26/09
By Christine Yang / February 20, 2009
Harvard Beats Yale, John Oliver—and It's Okay, I'm a Cyborg.
UC Dancers’s annual show features modern choreography From All Sides
By Jessen O’Brien / February 20, 2009
UC Dancers's new show offers dancing from all perspectives.
Munch’s works shine despite AIC’s forced presentation
By Laura Jones / February 20, 2009
Despite its heavy-handed presentation, the Art Institute of Chicago's new Munch exhibit succeeds in highlighting the artist's underrated prints and other lesser-known works.
 
Strong acting, new setting take U.T.’s Tartuffe to the top
By Ben Rossi / February 20, 2009
U.T.'s production of Tartuffe shows us a different side of Moliere's great play: its depiction of the deep risks and numberless rewards of falling in love.
 
Slumdog’s Oscar triumph: Is it written?
By William Glick / February 20, 2009
The Academy's snubbing of Dark Knight is an insult, and Slumdog's triumph a foregone conclusion; but some of the actor categories are still up for grabs.
Student Dems, GOP debate climate change
By Ilana Kowarski / February 20, 2009
The College Republicans and the UC Dems debated climate change last night, arguing on environmental policy and whether there is a significant environmental problem at all.
Brainwashed agents enter Whedon’s Dollhouse
By Michelle Welch / February 17, 2009
Does Eliza Dushku have the range necessary to transform herself every week---not only for the Dollhouse's clients, but for viewers?
 
Café Society serves up pop culture buzz
By Chase Weldon / February 17, 2009
Hyde Park neighbors keep each other hip to the times at Valois.
 
Art paints sardonic portrait of friendships on the brink
By Ben Sigrist / February 17, 2009
The Steppenwolf's latest fosters compassion for the most unlikable characters and honestly questions the influence that art has over people.
Despite Guggenheim shoot-out, International proves bankrupt in originality
By Michelle Welch / February 17, 2009
Tom Twycker's new thriller features some pretty cityscapes, but little in the way of new ground.
Shortcuts—Beirut’s March of the Zapotec/Holland
By Sierra Sterling / February 17, 2009
It seems as if Beirut fashioned the structure of March/Holland after the idea of a vinyl record.
Chicago Manual of Style—February 17, 2009
By Jessica Hester / February 17, 2009
Weave through Wicker Park for winning wares.
Uncover Hyde Park’s hidden comic-book lair
By Michael Lipkin / February 10, 2009
Voices talks to the man behind First Aid Comics about how to get your funnybook fix in Hyde Park.
Miyagi dispenses sage wisdom on Bowie, Beefheart
By Nora Sorena Casey / February 10, 2009
Voices interviews singer and guitarist David Best, stage name Miyagi, who shares his thoughts about the perils of heavy metal and the trouble with dirty socks.
V-Day promises fun for singles and steadies
By Hayley Lamberson / February 10, 2009
For both the lovers and the loveless, the 14th is the day to get out of the house and see what the city has to offer.
Roberts’s hamfisted Hamlet leaves no doubt whether play should be or not be
By Chelsea Vail / February 10, 2009
One-man production lacks the artistry to pull of this adaptation of Shakespeare's masterpiece.
Shortcut: Lisa Hannigan—See Sew
By Ilana Kowarski / February 10, 2009
After years of singing backup for big-name artists like Damien Rice and Snow Patrol, Ireland’s Lisa Hannigan makes her solo debut.
Chicago Manual of Style—February 10, 2009
By Jessica Hester / February 10, 2009
Belmont is full of funky resale shops and stylish specialty stores perfect for outfitting the student set.
Words & Guitar: The misogyny playlist
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 6, 2009
There’s plenty of girl-unfriendly sentiment throughout rock history. But as it turns out, there’s hardly a song that reflects the female misogynist's perspective.
STD (Stuff to Do)—February 6 through February 12
By Christine Yang / February 6, 2009
Bill Maher's Religulous on one night, Reverend Wright on the next. Who could ask for anything more?
Shoegazers take stage on heels of debut full-length album
By Yusuf Siddiquee / February 6, 2009
Titus Andronicus may be named after a Shakespearean drama, but the band's meteoric rise has been anything but tragic.
Despite stale gags, the Force is with Fanboys
By Michelle Welch / February 6, 2009
Though its attempts to imitate other comedies fall flat, Fanboys is strongest when it embraces its nerdiness.
 
For 49th year, folkies dust off time-worn tunes
By Michael Lipkin / February 6, 2009
Folk musicians from across the country converge on Mandell Hall to celebrate American root music.
Ludo lingers on Brides, brushing teeth
By Hayley Lamberson / February 3, 2009
Tim Ferrell looks back fondly on indie days and U of C cast parties.
Latin American photos mingle magic, reality
By Ben Sigrist / February 3, 2009
DePaul Art Museum's new photo exhibit portrays subjects as personally affecting as they are unfamiliar.
Realities of Lebanese war animate Folman’s Bashir
By Madelyn Freed / February 3, 2009
Lebanese dance of destruction doesn't let audiences bow out.
Amid game glut, E.A. blasts off with overlooked Bioshock redux—in space!
By Gerald Waddell / February 3, 2009
“CUT OFF THEIR LIMBS,” the game tells you. Take its warning to heart.
Homecoming proves bittersweet for Galactica’s crew
By Shahzad Ahsan / February 3, 2009
Even after the near extinction of the human race, Battlestar Galactica still has punches to pull.
Chicago Manual of Style—February 3, 2009
By Jessica Hester / February 3, 2009
Dress up your address with DIY decor and frugal furnishings.
Experts discuss impact of Christian Zionists on policy, future of Israel
By Maroon Staff / January 30, 2009
Experts on theology and the Middle East gathered Tuesday to debate the impact that Christian Zionists have as the driving force behind the United States’ support for Israel in a panel discussion at the Divinity School sponsored by Chicago Friends of Israel (CFI).
Carl Hammer Gallery heralds the second coming with Palmer show
By Mitch Montoya / January 30, 2009
Palmer invokes traditional canons of religious art while subverting them.
Stuff To Do (STD) 1/30/09—1/5/09
By Christine Yang / January 30, 2009
Rod Blagojevich, Relay for Life, and My Friend Vince
Words & Guitar: The nerd/punk dialectic
By Supriya Sinhababu / January 30, 2009
It’s a stretch, but species of nerds at the University of Chicago can be matched with analogous musical equivalents.
Transgender, Mormon find The Real World
By Matt Barnum / January 30, 2009
The Real World returns with the same inimitable mixture of idiocy and insight.
New England meets Oedipus in Goodman’s Desire
By Nora Sorena Casey / January 30, 2009
Goodman Theatre's production of Desire Under the Elms does justice to O'Neill's powerful vision and poetic language.
Broad Shoulders deserves brotherly love
By Elizabeth Goetz / January 30, 2009
The influence of art collective Hairy Who is pervasive in HPAC's Broad Shoulders and Brotherly Love.
Buckets of blood drench CST’s Macbeth
By Lisbeth Redfield / January 27, 2009
Shakespearean gore translates with eerie ease to updated adapatation.
Buckets of blood drench CST’s Macbeth
By Lisbeth Redfield / January 27, 2009
Shakespearean gore translates with eerie ease to updated adapatation.
Paczos abandons avant-garde, embraces demolition
By Ben Rossi / January 27, 2009
At HPAC, Andy Paczos charts a course between the urban and the wild.
Paczos abandons avant-garde, embraces demolition
By Ben Rossi / January 27, 2009
At HPAC, Andy Paczos charts a course between the urban and the wild.
 
Family strife, nervy acting make Duck soar
By Ben Sigrist / January 27, 2009
Court Theatre's adaptation of The Wild Duck does justice to Ibsen’s complex script, while offering some creative innovations.
Chicago Manual of Style—January 27, 2009
By Jessica Hester / January 27, 2009
You don’t need a queer eye to chill in Andersonville.
STD (Stuff To Do)—1/23/09 to 1/29/09
By Christine Yang / January 23, 2009
David Holland, Back to Bach, and High School to Musical.
Shortcuts—Antony and the Johnsons’s The Crying Light
By Dmitri Leybman / January 23, 2009
One would need to look back to the glam rock of the ’70s to find musical personae who so indiscriminately traversed gender boundaries in their music.
Yoakum’s Picture tells the story of imaginative landscapes
By Melanie Treuhaft / January 23, 2009
Invoking the the hypnotic beauty of nature with mystical forms, Joseph Yoakum created an inspiring collection of work.
At Smart, Siskind’s writings reveal The Thing Itself
By Kate Shepherd / January 23, 2009
In the Smart Museum's new exhibit, the combination of the artist's writings and art works gives viewers a feel for what Siskind was trying to convey in his photographs.
Inert acting, occasional singing dissolves A New Nation
By Madelyn Freed / January 23, 2009
Though the actors and director are clearly committed to their project, A New Nation is thrown together and amateurish.
Words & Guitar
By Supriya Sinhababu / January 23, 2009
Journalism be damned. I’ve decided to become a rock star.
UT veteran goes pro with Nightmare-ish tale of love
By Matt Zakosek / January 23, 2009
Fourth-year TAPS major Augie Praley gets his break at Gorilla Tango Theatre.
Oceanic Six head back to the island for Lost season five
By Michelle Welch / January 23, 2009
For the cast members of Lost, the question is not where they can find the island, but when they can find it.
Maher brings drama to politics, poetry
By Jessen O’Brien / January 23, 2009
Mickle Maher, a Chicago play wright and actor, creates theater in untheatrical settings—panel discussions, lectures, and debates.
Purpose driven strife
By Tim Murphy / January 23, 2009
The Rick Warren dustup teaches us that tolerance needs to go both ways
The Gadabout—1/16/09
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / January 16, 2009
Sola serves up a genuine take on Pacific-inspired American food year-round.
Words & Guitar—1/16/09
By Supriya Sinhababu / January 16, 2009
Last year, Ian MacKaye killed rock 'n' roll.
Stuff To Do (STD) 1/16/09—1/22/09
By Christine Yang / January 16, 2009
W., Dusable, and Dogfish Heaven.
Barnes, Saramago weigh the pros and cons of the beyond
By Kira Bennett / January 16, 2009
Two novels come to the conclusion that when it comes to death, you're damned if you do and you're damned if you don't.
Inaugural Ball promenades through decades
By Chase Weldon / January 16, 2009
Fledgling RSO Breaking Grounds plans to hail the coming of the next administration with a Great Depression-themed ball.
DOVA, Dr. Wax sample pictures and sounds
By Ben Rossi / January 16, 2009
Dr. Wax and DOVA Temporary Gallery have finally linked arms, so get down to Harper Court before the show closes on January 24.
Lutes unites realism and abstraction at Renaissance Society retrospective
By Pete Russell / January 13, 2009
Jim Lutes mixes up reality and abstraction, and throws in some drywallers just for fun.
Sand Castle’s cast stands strong in face of intimidating script
By Ilana Kowarski / January 13, 2009
Lanford Wilson's drama about friendship and family falls into the capable hands of Theatre Seven of Chicago.
Inuit cold blood: Eerie Eskimo bogeymen haunt Private Lives
By Ben Sigrist / January 13, 2009
Missing Steppenwolf's production of Kafka on the Shore? Try out this gem from The Mill Theatre.
Chicago Manual of Style —January 13, 2009
By Jessica Hester / January 13, 2009
Nail that interview! Fashion dos and don’ts for landing the gig.
Ferreira brings Zulu themes to Hyde Park
By Mitch Montoya / January 13, 2009
Hyde Park Art Center's artist-in-residence Jose Ferreira invites visitors to walk through his work in progress.
Clock still ticking, but 24’s glory days near end
By Matt Barnum / January 13, 2009
With the premiere of its seventh season, Fox's real-time counter-terrorist drama starts to show signs of old age.
Top 5 Top 40 Albums of 2008
By Emale Gray / January 9, 2009
We top our hats to the top 5 of the top 40 of the bottom year we call 2008.
Top 5 Films of 2008
By Matt Zakosek / January 9, 2009
The movies that moved us in 2008.
Top 5 Independent Albums of 2008
By Jingru Yang / January 9, 2009
The hard-knock indie records that took the cake in '08.
Top 5 YouTube Videos of 2008
By Jessen O’Brien / January 9, 2009
The clips we couldn't stop forwarding in '08.
Top 5 Underrated Movies of 2008
By Madelyn Freed / January 9, 2009
The movies we loved to hate and hated to love in 2008.
Top 5 New Artists of 2008
By Yusuf Siddiquee / January 9, 2009
The groups that blasted onto the music scene in '08.
Top 5 Songs of 2008
By Rob Underwood / January 9, 2009
The tunes that kept us tapping our toes all 2008 long.
Top 5 Music Videos of 2008
By Supriya Sinhababu / January 9, 2009
The top four picture/sound combos of the year gone by—plus an unwelcome word from the Maroon's big cheese.
Milk tells powerful story, but doesn’t reduce Harvey to a figurehead
By Matt Zakosek / December 2, 2008
Under the expert direction of Gus Van Sant, Sean Penn paints a portrait of a complicated man in volatile times.
Shortcuts—The Killers’ Day and Age
By Rebecca Gieseker / December 2, 2008
The Killers' new album is everything a Killers fan could hope for.
Chicago Manual of Style—December 2, 2008
By Jessica Hester / December 2, 2008
Even in dark economic times, there are ways to spread holiday cheer.
“Writing” proves etching is the new sketching, ain’t that fetching?
By Eylul Kayin / December 2, 2008
The Smart Museum's new exhibit tells the story of the revival of etching as a medium of fine art.
Precocious Blitstein chirps awhile about value of following your own path
By Ilana Kowarski / December 2, 2008
Chicago native Jonathan Blitstein fought against the odds to become one of the youngest filmmakers ever to write, direct, and produce a feature film.
Midsummer’s mix of cultures and performing arts makes for an enchanting night
By William Chyr / December 2, 2008
Tim Supple's production does a wonderful job of bringing together dance, theater and circus in a cross-cultural celebration of Shakespeare's famous comedy.
Potter pontificates on Pete Townshend, Pat Leahy, and playing Chicago
By Anjali Verghis / December 2, 2008
Grace Potter & the Nocturnals bring their blues-rock blend to Martyrs'.
 
Platypus guides Prozak through problems with parentals
By Ben Sigrist / December 2, 2008
The dreams of platypuses are the subject of UT's Prozak and the Platypus.
Hark! CMAC delivers time-worn tunes, feisty skits
By Marcella De Laurentiis / December 2, 2008
Like a liquor-heavy recipe for eggnog, the Chicago Men's A Cappella group serves up holiday hits with a twist.
Frosty political tête-á-tête hits close to home
By Michelle Welch / December 2, 2008
Though focusing on the aftermath of a thirty-year-old scandal, Frost/Nixon could not be more relevant.
St. Cecilia celebrates the sight of music
By Kate Shepherd / November 25, 2008
It seems logical that artist Joseph Grigely would feature lipreading as a central theme in his work; after all, he has been deaf since childhood.
St. Cecilia celebrates the sight of music
By Kate Shepherd / November 25, 2008
It seems logical that artist Joseph Grigely would feature lipreading as a central theme in his work; after all, he has been deaf since childhood.
 
Theatrical adaptation makes Life a little more musical
By Jessen O’Brien / November 25, 2008
At the Theatre at the Center, the holiday season starts with a new twist on that an old Frank Capra story.
 
Theatrical adaptation makes Life a little more musical
By Jessen O’Brien / November 25, 2008
At the Theatre at the Center, the holiday season starts with a new twist on that an old Frank Capra story.
HPAC’s path to weirdness paved with pine needles
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 25, 2008
Things are getting a little weirder at the Hyde Park Art Center (HPAC).
HPAC’s path to weirdness paved with pine needles
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 25, 2008
Things are getting a little weirder at the Hyde Park Art Center (HPAC).
Careful! Hauptschein’s chilling, drug-addled tale might knock you out
By Rob Underwood / November 25, 2008
Chicago playwright David Hauptschein’s deceptively complex characters provide a chillingly humorous investigation of how four different people deal with a seemingly catastrophic situation.
Careful! Hauptschein’s chilling, drug-addled tale might knock you out
By Rob Underwood / November 25, 2008
Chicago playwright David Hauptschein’s deceptively complex characters provide a chillingly humorous investigation of how four different people deal with a seemingly catastrophic situation.
Shortcuts: Kanye West—808s and Heartbreak
By Yusuf Siddiquee / November 25, 2008
Kanye West isn’t scared to take big steps, even if they are missteps.
Shortcuts: Kanye West—808s and Heartbreak
By Yusuf Siddiquee / November 25, 2008
Kanye West isn’t scared to take big steps, even if they are missteps.
Chicago Manual of Style—November 25, 2008
By Jessica Hester / November 25, 2008
Where’s the fashion magazine for the average Josephine?
Chicago Manual of Style—November 25, 2008
By Jessica Hester / November 25, 2008
Where’s the fashion magazine for the average Josephine?
Benjamin Curtis chimes in on Seven Bells
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / November 21, 2008
School of Seven Bells guitarist Benjamin Curtis took time out to chat with VOICES about his new project and the band’s motivations, and tells us what inspires the dreamy quality of Bells’ music.
M83 mastermind composes odes to youth
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / November 21, 2008
As M83 mastermind Anthony Gonzalez hits the road on his second tour of America this year, VOICES chatted with him about the record, his influences, and playing live.
 
Mature acting, direction drive UT production
By Ilana Kowarski / November 21, 2008
Inspired by Vladimir Nabokov’s Lolita, How I Learned to Drive tries to illustrate what Lolita would look like if told from the title character’s perspective. University Theater manages a production of the play relatively free of the heebie-jeebies.
 
Slumdog’s camera work, inspirational story line worth a million rupees
By William Glick / November 21, 2008
Danny Boyle’s new film Slumdog Millionaire manages the difficult task of portraying an uplifting rags-to-riches story while still giving the audience a compelling, uncompromising, and thorough drama.
Margot hits Bottom Lounge after triple-album explosion
By Hayley Lamberson / November 21, 2008
Perfect for the cold, gray winter, Margot and the Nuclear So and So’s is the kind of band that makes you want to stay inside and lounge around the house. Still, try to come see them at the Bottom Lounge on Saturday.
 
Clang Clang! Christmas comes early in St. Louis
By Mitch Montoya / November 21, 2008
While it may seem odd that a classic holiday play has started showing before anyone has even sat down to their Thanksgiving dinner, Meet Me in St. Louis has a charming quality that makes it enjoyable during any season.
STD—November 21, 2008
By Christine Yang / November 21, 2008
The week before Thanksgiving, you can engage in scholarly debate about your cake and eat it too.
Chicago Manual of Style—November 18, 2008
By Jessica Hester / November 18, 2008
Winter weather woes? Not with these clothes!
Shortcuts—Beyoncé’s I Am…Sasha Fierce
By Emale Gray / November 18, 2008
On her latest release, Beyoncé attempts to showcase her human side, as well as her stage persona, Sasha Fierce. Clearly, this idea for commercial success is about as lucrative as adding the surname Christ Superstar and believing it to be true.
 
Scandinavian vampire flick warms your heart, makes your blood run cold
By Madelyn Freed / November 18, 2008
Don’t be fooled by the dark and cold of a Swedish winter—Let the Right One In is an excellent reminder of how much harsher childhood is by comparison.
USA Today tells straight story of the 20th century
By Mitch Montoya / November 18, 2008
The Museum of Contemporary Art has a reputation for taking patrons back in time to look at revolutionary artists who have helped shape American culture. But with its new exhibit, USA Today, the museum has redefined the concept of the retrospective.
Kleinzahler concludes Poem Present series in Rapid City
By Rob Underwood / November 18, 2008
As the final poet in the University’s Poem Present series, August Kleinzahler will read from his new book of grizzled, chiseled poetry in Rosenwald Hall Thursday afternoon.
 
Christmas Carol depresses and impresses
By Ben Sigrist / November 18, 2008
Dublin Carol, Steppenwolf Theatre’s new one-act production, is a play for the not-so-jolly kind of Christmas.
 
Photo Feature: UT’s How I Learned to Drive
By Voices Staff / November 18, 2008
Paula Vogel's 1998 Pulitzer Prize-winning play How I Learned to Drive tells the story of a prepubescent girl's sexual relationship with her step-uncle in rural 1960s Maryland.
STD (Stuff to Do)—November 14 through November 20
By Christine Yang / November 14, 2008
Mary-Kate Olsen, Alkaline Trio, a strange Boy named Brian Wilson.
Gadabout—Mana Food Bar
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / November 14, 2008
Mana Food Bar, a laid back, intimate vegetarian restaurant, abandons the usual "faking" of meat in favor of showcasing vegetables in their own right.
East meets west in Statler’s print collection
By Charles Yarborough / November 14, 2008
Post-war Japan was the site of a meeting between modern Western aesthetics and the ancient art of Japanese print making.
 
Fresh-faced Sklar takes Elder and company on tour
By Ilana Kowarski / November 14, 2008
Todd Sklar, indie filmmaker and founder of Range Life Entertainment, leads his Box Elder and three other films to the Gene Siskel Film Center as part of a 22-city tour.
Speak of the devil! Mafia makes an album you can’t refuse
By Madelyn Freed / November 13, 2008
Three 6 Mafia founding member Juicy J chats with VOICES about Mafia's new album and dispels rumors of his satanism.
 
Quantum can’t find an iota of originality
By Michelle Welch / November 11, 2008
This frenetic and abrupt installment in the Bond franchise, freighted with high expectations after the success of Casino Royale, is damaged goods.
Shea pens poetry from Chicago to Japan
By Ben Sigrist / November 11, 2008
In an e-mail interview, Chicago poet James Shea discussed everything that is important to poets: cookies, pizza stones, and poetry too.
 
Original Macbeth comes through with minimal radio interference
By Rob Underwood / November 11, 2008
Framed as a rehearsal of a radio broadcast of the play, Radio Macbeth initially jettisons most of the visual aspect of theater—to intriguing effect.
Despite originality, Synecdoche’s parts fall short of a compelling whole
By William Glick / November 11, 2008
The world “synecdoche” (pronounced sih-NECK-duh-kee) means a whole standing in for the part, and Kaufman’s film, while epic in scope, is certainly about the journey of one individual.
Chicago Manual of Style—November 11, 2008
By Jessica Hester / November 11, 2008
Student style profile: Virginia Rangos explores fashion from high to low.
Doctors Hospital hotel blocked for at least four years, precinct voted dry
By Ella Christoph / November 7, 2008
Residents voted the 39th precinct dry on Tuesday, halting University plans to convert the vacant Doctor’s Hospital into a hotel.
Doctors Hospital hotel blocked for at least four years, precinct voted dry
By Ella Christoph / November 7, 2008
Residents voted the 39th precinct dry on Tuesday, halting University plans to convert the vacant Doctor’s Hospital into a hotel.
STD (Stuff to Do)—November 7 through November 13
By Christine Yang / November 7, 2008
Jim Henson, Alanis Morissette, and a fantasy world ruled by a tyrant dragon.
STD (Stuff to Do)—November 7 through November 13
By Christine Yang / November 7, 2008
Jim Henson, Alanis Morissette, and a fantasy world ruled by a tyrant dragon.
Shortcuts—Snow Patrol’s A Hundred Million Suns
By Rebecca Gieseker / November 7, 2008
Snow Patrol's fifth and latest album was highly anticipated by indie fans and 15-year-old McDreamy worshipers alike.
Shortcuts—Snow Patrol’s A Hundred Million Suns
By Rebecca Gieseker / November 7, 2008
Snow Patrol's fifth and latest album was highly anticipated by indie fans and 15-year-old McDreamy worshipers alike.
Script may tread old ground, but these men have Soul
By Jessen O’Brien / November 7, 2008
The rapport between leads Bernie Mac and Samuel L. Jackson redeems Soul Men's unoriginal plot.
Script may tread old ground, but these men have Soul
By Jessen O’Brien / November 7, 2008
The rapport between leads Bernie Mac and Samuel L. Jackson redeems Soul Men's unoriginal plot.
Thrill author says killings wouldn’t have happened at DePaul
By Madelyn Freed / November 7, 2008
Simon Baatz, author of For the Thrill of It: Leopold and Loeb and the Murder That Shocked Chicago, talks to VOICES about the killers' fascinating relationship and their U of C connection.
Thrill author says killings wouldn’t have happened at DePaul
By Madelyn Freed / November 7, 2008
Simon Baatz, author of For the Thrill of It: Leopold and Loeb and the Murder That Shocked Chicago, talks to VOICES about the killers' fascinating relationship and their U of C connection.
Models set high standards for mediocre films
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / November 7, 2008
Role Models's slacker charm doesn't elevate its fundamentally commonplace premise, but it's still a fun way to spend an hour and half of your time.
Models set high standards for mediocre films
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / November 7, 2008
Role Models's slacker charm doesn't elevate its fundamentally commonplace premise, but it's still a fun way to spend an hour and half of your time.
UT tries its hand at sketch and succeeds
By Jessen O’Brien / November 7, 2008
UT's Sketch Show brings the quick-fire wit of Saturday Night Live to Reynold Club's First Floor Theater.
Judith set to slay audiences—in Slavonic
By Marcella De Laurentiis / November 7, 2008
The critically acclaimed Croation adaptation of the biblical story of Judith makes up in impressive vocal performance and entrancing music what it lacks in steamy passion.
 
Crowd leaves Decemberists out in the cold
By Jake Grubman / November 4, 2008
While The Decemberists’ performance at Mandel Hall this weekend had some bright spots, a cold crowd ultimately set the tone for the night.
At MCA, Holzer spins truisms into gold
By Rachel Cromidas / November 4, 2008
Holzer's words at once evoke violence and love, morality and depravity, and are rich with the social and political contradictions of our era.
In its 27th year, Reeling paints Chicago pink, white, and blue
By Mitch Montoya / November 4, 2008
Unsurprisingly, the theme of this year’s Reeling Festival, “All American Queer,” joins in with the rest of the country’s fascination with politics.
House breaks down walls holding back frank racial debate
By MaryBeth Gronek / November 4, 2008
A House With No Walls delivers a flawless account of the current racial issues in society, leaving no avenue of opinion or discussion concealed.
Shortcuts—Lady GaGa’s The Fame
By Emale Gray / November 4, 2008
There is one Stefani who has not only succeeded at redefining the pop genre, but has inspired some of mainstream music’s top artists to follow suit.
Shortcuts—Lady GaGa’s The Fame
By Emale Gray / November 4, 2008
There is one Stefani who has not only succeeded at redefining the pop genre, but has inspired some of mainstream music’s top artists to follow suit.
Chicago Manual of Style—November 4, 2008
By Jessica Hester / November 4, 2008
Designer duds on a dime? No problem!
Chicago Manual of Style—November 4, 2008
By Jessica Hester / November 4, 2008
Designer duds on a dime? No problem!
Visiting politics professor explores how experience of shame can be linked to race
By Kelin Hall / October 31, 2008
Melissa Harris-Lacewell, associate professor of politics and African-American studies at Princeton University, presented a chapter of her book-in-progress, “Sister Citizen: Black Women’s Politics in the Crooked Room,” Thursday afternoon at the Centers for Gender/Race Studies.
STD (Stuff to Do)—October 31 through November 6
By Christine Yang / October 31, 2008
Rocky, Warhol, Obama—featuring Celine Dion
Gadabout—10/31/08
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / October 31, 2008
Uncommon Ground, with one outpost on Devon Street and another by Wrigley Stadium, shifts easily between the roles of independent coffee shop, music venue, and restaurant.
Gadabout—10/31/08
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / October 31, 2008
Uncommon Ground, with one outpost on Devon Street and another by Wrigley Stadium, shifts easily between the roles of independent coffee shop, music venue, and restaurant.
Shortcuts—Nora Casey
By Emale Gray / October 31, 2008
A self-proclaimed “Funky White Bitch” by the name of Nikka Costa wholeheartedly revives a genre that Teenie Marie defined: blue-eyed soul.
Absurdist Thugs not afraid of the dark
By Nora Sorena Casey / October 31, 2008
Profiles Theatre’s The Thugs is a play driven by mystery, murder, and a whole lot of fragmented sentences.
Booth baffles with high-concept spin on Cotán
By Hayley Lamberson / October 31, 2008
Mark Booth's new exhibit is a multi-media reworking of a still-life by Spanish baroque artist Juan Cotan.
Granger reconciles Rowling and religion
By Marcella Delaurentiis / October 31, 2008
U of C grad John Granger, known as the Hogwarts Professor, weighs in on the complicated symbolism at play in the Harry Potter series.
Princeton’s on probation, but U of C gets high marks from Kirn
By Jingru Yang / October 28, 2008
VOICES sat down with Kirn to talk about Lost in the Meritocracy: The Undereducation of an Overachiever, before his reading from the book on the afternoon of Tuesday, October 28.
Steppenwolf’s casting confuses Menagerie
By Ilana Kowarski / October 28, 2008
The Steppenwolf production of The Glass Menagerie conveys the play's theme of pain, even though it fails to accurately convey the world Tennessee Williams was trying to create.
 
Dostoevsky has his day on Lookingglass stage
By Jessen O’Brien / October 28, 2008
To condense Fyodor Dostoevsky's The Brothers Karamazov, a 776-page novel, into a three-hour play is no small task. Fortunately, Lookingglass Theatre's world premiere overcomes this challenge.
Hip-hop in high relief is all Greek to Vera’s viewers
By Elizabeth Goetz / October 28, 2008
Hip-hop culture doesn’t just give Vera his subject—it provides him with his artistic technique. Unfortunately, this remix just doesn’t fly.
Hip-hop in high relief is all Greek to Vera’s viewers
By Elizabeth Goetz / October 28, 2008
Hip-hop culture doesn’t just give Vera his subject—it provides him with his artistic technique. Unfortunately, this remix just doesn’t fly.
Out of the bank vaults, a wealth of perspectives on Chicago emerge
By Kate Shepherd / October 28, 2008
Made in Chicago includes “classic” Chicago images like the skyline and Lake Michigan, but also offers a fresh view of the city by displaying images of residents, celebrations, lesser known sites, and even demolished buildings.
Chicago Manual of Style—October 28, 2008
By Jessica Hester / October 28, 2008
Posh or pedestrian: Did Palin cast the right vote?
Renaissance and Baroque etchings not much of a draw
By Elizabeth Goetz / October 24, 2008
As I turned my gaze from one red chalk drawing to another at Drawn to Drawings, the newest exhibition at the Art Institute, I was surprised to find someone talking to me.
Renaissance and Baroque etchings not much of a draw
By Elizabeth Goetz / October 24, 2008
As I turned my gaze from one red chalk drawing to another at Drawn to Drawings, the newest exhibition at the Art Institute, I was surprised to find someone talking to me.
 
Meyer, Thile to make melodies at Mandel
By Erik Lokensgard / October 24, 2008
VOICES asked Thile and Meyer them a few questions about their musical experiences.
School’s out for weekend—still, scholars fill seats
By Marcella Delaurentiis / October 24, 2008
For the 30th-annual University of Chicago Humanities Day, faculty from more than 21 different departments will present lectures, screen films, and lead discussions answering the broad question of what it means to be human.
Substances’s mix muddles exhibit’s theme
By Maroon Staff / October 24, 2008
I risked life and limb to make it to the opening of the new Zhou B. Art Center exhibition, Collective Substances, only to face disappointment.
Hodgman’s book gives more information than you desire
By Michael Lipkin / October 24, 2008
More Information, which like Expertise is a dry-witted spoof of the almanac genre, is less a sequel than a direct continuation of its predecessor.
NYPD flick with Norton and Farrell gets no glory
By Ben Sigrist / October 24, 2008
Only those who are absolutely sick of Law and Order reruns and are craving even a barely functional police drama might be satisfied by this film.
STD (Stuff to Do)—October 24 through October 30
By Maroon Staff / October 24, 2008
VOICES gives you the lowdown on stuff to do this week, from October 24 to October 30.
With Corso, Reininger doesn’t miss a beat
By Supriya Sinhababu / October 21, 2008
In many ways, Gregory Corso’s late adolescence mirrors that of the typical University of Chicago student. Unfortunately for Corso, the backdrop for his learning and growing experiences was not the U of C, but Clinton Correctional Facility, New York State’s maximum-security prison.
Neutral Milk Hotel’s Koster leads Elephant to Bottom Lounge
By Hayley Lamberson / October 21, 2008
To celebrate the release of two albums, Julian Koster teamed up with various member bands of the Elephant 6 Recording Company for “The Elephant 6 Holiday Surprise Tour.” VOICES talked to Koster about his upcoming tour, his new albums, and how his music has evolved..
HPAC offers not just one Pretty Face, but many
By Elizabeth Goetz / October 21, 2008
A visit to the Hyde Park Art Center’s (HPAC) newest exhibition, Not Just Another Pretty Face, will have you confused why the patronage system isn’t used more often.
 
Not real bard? Methinks you protest too much
By William Chyr / October 21, 2008
In Shakesploitation!, a series of sketch comedy–style parodies of Shakespeare’s plays, Gorilla Tango Theatre just wants to give you some straight-up absurd, anti-intellectual, and oftentimes inappropriate fun.
Chicago Manual of Style – 10/21/2008
By Jessica Hester / October 21, 2008
Since hemp is no longer the only eco-friendly fabric, green doesn’t have to be granola.
STD (Stuff to Do)—October 17, 2008
By Christine Yang / October 17, 2008
Thumbsuckers, fashion designers, and, of course, Mozart
The Gadabout—October 17, 2008
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / October 17, 2008
The Gadabout stops in to Piece for a reprieve from these hard times in the form of New Haven-style pizza and homemade beer.
 
Praise be! C.S. Lewis’s hellish premise lends itself to heavenly production
By MaryBeth Gronek / October 17, 2008
The Screwtape Letters imagines hell as a vast bureaucracy devoted to tempting souls to their doom.
 
Despite free online release, Princess not worthy of any crowns
By Jingru Yang / October 17, 2008
The Princess of Nebraska lacks a sympathetic touch.
Davis’s close-ups capture democracy gone wild at HPAC
By Mitch Montoya / October 17, 2008
Political Frenzy's candid photographs reveal some of the highlights and lowlights of both the Democrat and Republican campaign trails.
Salsa, Santería bring Dancing Graves to life
By Marcella Delaurentiis / October 17, 2008
Dancing Graves: The Story of an Afro-Cuban Family on Chicago’s West Side delves into the religious beliefs of the Afro-Cuban population and the growing concerns of a community torn apart by violence.
 
Solid performances escape confines of shaky script
By William Chyr / October 17, 2008
Jesus Hopped the ‘A’ Train confronts issues of faith, justice, and morality in the American prison system.
Deerhoof and Maggie make tracks for Metro
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / October 17, 2008
VOICES talks to the members of Deerhoof about their new album, Offend Magic, and the possibility of a rock opera in their future.
Deerhoof and Maggie make tracks for Metro
By Derrick Teo Wee Ghee / October 17, 2008
VOICES talks to the members of Deerhoof about their new album, Offend Magic, and the possibility of a rock opera in their future.
Alys’s Rehearsal introduces conceptual art to the real world
By Charles Yarborough / October 14, 2008
Sometimes, art is at its best when it’s concrete.
Chicago Manual of Style—October 14, 2008
By Jessica Hester / October 14, 2008
Whether he aspires to the glory of manly sports or to be a dapper man-about-town, sometimes a guy needs to suit up.
Proud Graney’s production falls prey to sensory overload
By Tyler Warner / October 14, 2008
Smoke and lights are the hallmark of Chicago theatrical heavyweight Sean Graney’s spectacle-laden new production of Edward II at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater.
Proud Graney’s production falls prey to sensory overload
By Tyler Warner / October 14, 2008
Smoke and lights are the hallmark of Chicago theatrical heavyweight Sean Graney’s spectacle-laden new production of Edward II at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater.
For film buffs this month, Doc’s not the only game in town
By Andreas Nahas / October 14, 2008
Although it doesn’t have the beaches of Cannes, the mountains of Sundance, or even the clean streets of Toronto, the 44th annual Chicago International Film Festival packs a punch.
For film buffs this month, Doc’s not the only game in town
By Andreas Nahas / October 14, 2008
Although it doesn’t have the beaches of Cannes, the mountains of Sundance, or even the clean streets of Toronto, the 44th annual Chicago International Film Festival packs a punch.
Mirah ready to rock out with prosthetic pinky
By Yusuf Siddiquee / October 14, 2008
Though she had gone through an unfortunate accident, Mirah was still psyched for her new album and her Chicago show during her chat with the MAROON.
Mirah ready to rock out with prosthetic pinky
By Yusuf Siddiquee / October 14, 2008
Though she had gone through an unfortunate accident, Mirah was still psyched for her new album and her Chicago show during her chat with the MAROON.
While thorny in theory, Emergence is pretty in practice
By Eylul Kayin / October 14, 2008
For those who missed the Chicago Humanities Festival’s big day in Hyde Park last Saturday, here’s a second chance.
Festival celebrates epics, economists, and emergence
By Ben Sigrist / October 10, 2008
One of the focal points of the Chicago Humanities Festival will be this Saturday’s Hyde Park Day.
The Express draws no fouls, but scores no extra points
By Yusuf Siddiquee / October 10, 2008
A run-of-the-mill inspirational story like this needs some thing extra—stellar acting, a great score, powerful dialogue, or clever cinematography—to set itself apart.
Chicken DVD amuses, but fails to take flight
By Hayley Lamberson / October 10, 2008
For a show as capricious as Robot Chicken, the DVD extras are surprisingly bland.
STD
By Christine Yang / October 10, 2008
Punks, Trannies and Nobel Laureates
Expect the Spanish Inquisition from Red Tape Theatre
By Pete Russell / October 10, 2008
Dog in a Manger works less as a play and more as a two-and-a-half hour polemic.
Gordon Center exhibit weds the academic and the aesthetic
By Chelsea Vail / October 10, 2008
Science in Art aims to bridge the gap between scientists and non-scientists, using art to foster dialogue.
A-list stars take backseat to supporting actors
By Matt Zakosek / October 10, 2008
Russell Crowe and Leonardo DiCaprio may be the marquee names, but Body of Lies belongs to two other performers: Mark Strong and Golshifteh Farahani.
Chicago Manual of Style – 10/7/2008
By Jessica Hester / October 7, 2008
The ever-growing, ever-younger crop of in-demand models is a symptom of a larger “cradle culture” that covets youth.
 
Art Institute pays dues to Burnham’s 99-year-old brainchild
By Sierra Sterling / October 7, 2008
2009 marks the centennial of Daniel Burnham’s Plan of Chicago, a plan whose features dominate Chicago life.
Despite Danztheatre’s avant-garde pretensions, Yellow Wallpaper sticks
By Nora Sorena Casey / October 7, 2008
If the phrases “Gorilla Tango Theater” and “Wicker Park” conjure up pretentious avant-garde hipsters, withhold judgment for a minute.
 
Themes of tradition and modernity flow through Gorges
By Jingru Yang / October 7, 2008
Displacement focuses on the displacement of people and of places caused by the river’s shifting waters.
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) (October 3 – 9)
By Christine Yang / October 4, 2008
Music, biking, plays
Chicago Manual of Style
By Jessica Hester / October 4, 2008
This summer I escaped unscathed, but last summer I wasn’t so lucky. A year ago, I was a Fashion Week Hostage.
Jenny Lewis – Acid Tongue
By Sierra Sterling / October 4, 2008
When Rilo Kiley front-woman Jenny Lewis released Rabbit Fur Coat in 2006, listeners heard a new confidence in her voice.
Pussycat Dolls – Doll Domination
By Emale Gray / October 4, 2008
Ever since the Spice Girls said goodbye to the music world, the girl-group genre has been at an all-time low, rife with groups devoid of lyrical and musical substance.
Maher’s quick questions and quips abound, but Religulous is no revelation
By Brian White / October 4, 2008
For the non-religious, Passion of the Christ was a boring, irrelevant movie told in Christianity’s favorite language: excessive drama.
Media satire shows how to lose fans and alienate audiences
By Matt Zakosek / October 4, 2008
How to Lose Friends & Alienate People opens with a young man equating Hollywood to Shangri-La.
Caroline sings a different tune than conventional musicals
By William Glick / October 4, 2008
Something peculiar happened on Broadway in 2004.
Murakami masterpiece takes the stage
By Ben Rossi / October 4, 2008
Kafka on the Shore is spellbinding in its complexity. Murakami explores everything from post-war Japanese culture, to a young man’s search for identity, to time, memory, matter—you get the idea.
Murakami masterpiece takes the stage
By Ben Rossi / October 4, 2008
Kafka on the Shore is spellbinding in its complexity. Murakami explores everything from post-war Japanese culture, to a young man’s search for identity, to time, memory, matter—you get the idea.
With Nick and Norah, it’s love at first ringtone
By Matt Zakosek / October 4, 2008
Nick & Norah’s Infinite Playlist is bound to get a lot of flak for being a Juno knockoff.
Peet exhibit isn’t just kid’s stuff
By Elizabeth Goetz / September 23, 2008
I still can remember how his 1985 book Capyboppy taught my second-grade class about that strangest of rodents, the capybara, so often overlooked even by petting zoos but given due respect in Peet's book based on his family's experiences with the oddball animal..
Out of Vogue
By Jessica Hester / September 22, 2008
Fashion isn't irrelevant, even if you'd prefer to curl up with Oscar Wilde rather than Oscar de la Renta.
Mogwai still doesn’t care what you think
By Jingru Yang / September 22, 2008
Mogwai and Fuck Buttons play at Congress Theater on September 26.
Jazz fest riffs on city’s musical past
By Tyler Warner / September 22, 2008
Between 12 p.m. and 2 a.m. September 27, jazz will once again fill the streets and cultural institutions of Hyde Park. The festivities will include some 30 shows in 12 venues.
The Gadabout
By Clay Smith / September 22, 2008
We have put together, for the gastronomically daring, a local tasting menu spanning the gamut between breakfast and late-night "drunchies."
A Second City summer in review
By The Maroon Staff / September 22, 2008
Here's a little recap of the sights and sounds of the past season
Kitsch master Koons unveils MCA retrospective
By Jessica Hester / June 3, 2008
Jeff Koons has had a long, colorful career. The MCA has rightly decided to shine a light on the unconventional artist's works.
The Sex saga continues, inside and outside the city
By Mitch Montoya / June 3, 2008
Critics have had colorful opinions about the four famous vixens' film debut. But these ladies believe in themselves, and in their ridiculous senses of fashion—how could they go wrong?
The Weary Epicurean—June 3, 2008
By James Kraft / June 3, 2008
The Weary Epicurean writes his own obituary—or at least the obituary for his column. Graduating fourth-year James Kraft takes a bow, and tells us what we've all been salivating to know: What would the Epicurean's last meal be?
 
The Voices Guide to Summer in the City—The Best in Movies and Festivals
By Maroon Staff / June 3, 2008
Voices tells you about the hottest stuff to do around Chi-town this summer—and the coolest days to chill in a movie theater.
 
New York changes before Sloan’s eyes
By Kate Shepherd / May 30, 2008
John French Sloan, who was an illustrator before beginning his career as a print maker and painter, spent several years painting and drawing two Manhattan neighborhoods and the people who inhabited them.
Energetic performances renew Breeze
By Ben Rossi / May 30, 2008
The First Breeze of Summer revolves around the life and loves of Gremmar, the aging matriarch of a black family in an unnamed Northeastern city circa 1975.
Despite promise, film estranged from originality
By Matt Barnum / May 30, 2008
After exhaustive research—five minutes on Google—I'm inclined to say that the movie was inspired by true events in the same way that, say, Iron Man was: The only references I could find to these supposed "true events" came from online buzz about the movie itself..
Shortcut—The Bake Sale, by The Cool Kids
By Sierra Sterling / May 30, 2008
The Bake Sale offers a lot of insight into why The Cool Kids have gotten so much love. The EP feels laid-back, as if Mikey and Chuck wake up, put on their vinyl jackets, scarves, and retro-Nikes, and just start to spit rhymes as easily as breathing.
STD (Stuff to Do)—May 30, 2008
By Ben Rossi / May 30, 2008
Stuff to do from May 30 to June 5.
 
Scandinavian flick brings back the bromance
By Azure Gilman / May 23, 2008
Film preaches "bros before hos"
 
Scandinavian flick brings back the bromance
By Azure Gilman / May 23, 2008
Film preaches "bros before hos"
At SSN block party, art goes to work for the community
By Ben Rossi / May 23, 2008
Festival offers music, free 'cue, face painting
At SSN block party, art goes to work for the community
By Ben Rossi / May 23, 2008
Festival offers music, free 'cue, face painting
Shortcuts: Giant Panda—Electric Laser
By Seth Satterlee / May 23, 2008
Panda + lasers = happiness
Shortcuts: Giant Panda—Electric Laser
By Seth Satterlee / May 23, 2008
Panda + lasers = happiness
The Gadabout—May 23, 2008
By Clay Smith / May 23, 2008
Cheeseburger in Paradise
The Gadabout—May 23, 2008
By Clay Smith / May 23, 2008
Cheeseburger in Paradise
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—May 23, 2008
By Ben Rossi / May 23, 2008
Stuff happens.
Skull satisfies the jones for Jones
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 20, 2008
[img id=”80632″ align=”alignleft”] Don’t make the same mistake I made if you see Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull this weekend. In my infinite wisdom, I only bought a medium popcorn before the film started. You’re going to need one of those giant tubs, and considering the level of sustained action in the film, you’re probably going to need the free refill, too. The bigger mistake I made, however, was having exceedingly low expectations going into the film. With a revival of another slightly overrated 20-year-old franchise featuring a poorly aged hero and the god-awful Star Wars...
Trivia snuffs out character development
By Supriya Sinhababu / May 20, 2008
[img id=”80630″ align=”alignleft”] To date, Chuck Palahniuk has made 73 people faint just by reading them his short story “Guts,” a tale of worst-case masturbation scenarios. On the book tour for his new novel Snuff, the Fight Club author might just break his own record. In fact, record-breaking is something of a theme in Snuff. The novel chronicles the last day of porn queen Cassie Wright’s career, which she commemorates by attempting to set a serial fornication record. We see the events of the day’s all-male open casting call unfold through the eyes of four narrators—Sheila, Cassie’s personal assistant, and...
 
Stormy weather can’t upstage Summer Breeze
By Sierra Sterling / May 20, 2008
At a time of year when most students at other universities are closing their last blue books of the semester, University of Chicago students still have several weeks of trudging through texts and wistfully looking at flowering trees from the upper floors of the Reg. Fortunately, the students who serve on the Major Activities Board (MAB) know how much their peers need a taste of summer to get them through the final weeks of spring quarter. Hosted annually by MAB, this year’s Summer Breeze concert outshone the last, despite the rain. It seemed that MAB made a concerted effort to...
Shortcut—Arm’s Way, by Islands
By Yusuf Siddiquee / May 20, 2008
[img id=”80624″ align=”alignleft”] The Unicorns’ widely acclaimed Who Will Cut Our Hair When We’re Gone? was one of the most solid, promising, and fun releases of 2003; it left a good impression of what morbid indie experimental pop was supposed to be. Sadly, the Unicorns broke up, and we will probably never see its three members—Nick Thornburn, Alden Penner, and Jaime Thompson—together again. But Thornburn, formerly Nick Diamonds, has pledged to keep trudging on no matter what. He and Thompson teamed up with other musicians to form a new band, Islands. But Thompson left Islands in the spring of 2006,...
The Weary Epicurean—May 20, 2008
By James Kraft / May 20, 2008
There are at least five ways to make coffee in my apartment. I can boil it in a pot, percolate it on the stove, drip it through a filter, force steam through it under pressure, or if I’m not feeling violent, just gently bathe it in a French press. I’ve also tried the cold-brewed stuff, though it really doesn’t seem worth all the trouble. Of course, each of these methods requires a slightly different grind. Until this March, my roommate’s espresso grinder, a truly top-of-the-line professional number, made this task delightfully tunable. With coarseness settings from one to 100, we...
 
Latest Narnia quest appeals to all ages
By Brian White / May 16, 2008
Sometime well in the future, when I have a few children running around whom I’m desperate to entertain, I hope there will be movies like The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian around. This is one of those rare movies that kids will love and that parents will be able to sit through. There’s a good chance they might even enjoy it. But first, the bad: Prince Caspian is (surprise!) childish and simplistic. It strives for the mythological power of The Lord of The Rings but is held back by its PG rating and its intended preteen audience. In that respect,...
Rhythmic Bodies dance to diverse beats
By MaryBeth Gronek / May 16, 2008
[img id=”80616″ align=”alignleft”] “We love dance, and you should too” sums up the attitude of campus dance company Rhythmic Bodies In Motion (RBIM) and is also the driving force behind its upcoming show Body Language. This outlook is no command. Instead, it’s an invitation to be enriched by the many different styles of dance and to appreciate the art of dance on a grander scale. Body Language perfectly reflects this attitude in a high-voltage entertaining show that is not to be missed. RBIM’s mission statement centers around three main ideas: diversity in dance skill, dance style, and ethnicity. “The company...
Adams, Sellars see opera’s simple side
By Evelyn Wiese / May 16, 2008
What better way to celebrate the 250th anniversary of Mozart’s birth than with an opera based on an Indian folktale? If the question seems perverse, one should turn to the oeuvre of composer John Adams, whose latest creation, A Flowering Tree, opened Wednesday night at the Chicago Opera Theater. Adams and collaborator Peter Sellars are best known for their operas covering such subjects as the making of the A-bomb (Dr. Atomic), the Palestinian Liberation Army hijacking of an airliner (Death of Klinghoffer), and Nixon in China (Nixon in China). Not the usual stuff of arias. What makes A Flowering Tree...
STD (Stuff to Do)—May 16, 2008
By Ben Rossi / May 16, 2008
Friday / May 16 The Rockefeller Chapel Choir and period-instrument Baroque Band present a pairing of Baroque and Neo-Baroque tonight and tomorrow afternoon at the chapel. Old-school Baroque is represented by G.F. Handel’s “Dettingen Te Deum,” while the living Swedish composer Sven-David Sandstrom checks in for the Neo-Baroque team with his “Magnificat.” (Rockefeller Chapel, 8 p.m., $10 for students) Montreal punk band the CPC Gangbangs come to the Beat Kitchen to purvey their street-fighting trash rock. The group released its full-length debut last year and made an appearance in FUBAR: The Movie. CoCoComa and Mother of Tears open. (2100 West...
Road trip steers family closer together
By Jingru Yang / May 13, 2008
The day that aging, graying Boo-Seng Lee is abruptly laid off at work, he shows no more emotion than he ever has. But he comes home to tell his teenage sons that the three of them are going on a road trip. Durango, he says. Famous. There is a train, goes up into the mountains. Two or three hours. Though the brothers are equally incredulous, the younger Jimmy needs little encouragement to get excited about what will be the first family trip of his life. Isaac, though, isn’t thrilled when begging fails to get him off the hook. Any amount...
With new U.S. label, Dizzee spins in the states
By Seth Mayer / May 13, 2008
In the music video for Dizzee Rascal’s song “Where’s Da G’s” from his latest album Maths + English, the British MC cruises around the streets of Texas with Bun B, a rapper best known to audiences for being featured in Jay-Z’s “Big Pimpin’.” The two cruise around Houston in a green candy-painted convertible, trading verses. For those who are used to a hard and fast line between American and British hip-hop, the collaboration is unusual, but exciting. It’s the latest step forward in the career of Dizzee Rascal, one of the most popular purveyors of a U.K. variant of rap...
Campaign bursts with pop culture humor
By Pete Russell / May 13, 2008
Campaign Supernova, The Second City’s latest improv show, asks an important question: How many democrats does it take to lose an election? A bitingly funny reflection of the Democrats’ weariness as the primary draws to the bitter end, the revue will have many in the audience laughing to the point of tears. The show consists of about 20 skits and songs written and performed by a cast of six comedians. There’s a good amount of general political and cultural satire, but surprisingly little about the 2008 Democratic primary. On the whole, the six comedians are better performers than writers. Most...
Diaz, Kutcher balance out; Vegas misses jackpot
By Abigail Brown / May 13, 2008
I expected Tom Vaughan’s What Happens in Vegas to be the typical fare of the famed “comedic” actors Cameron Diaz and Ashton Kutcher, but I was mostly wrong. The film was highly enjoyable. While Diaz remained annoying and Kutcher maintained his stupid-boy role, they were appealing characters, and the comedy was definitely there. Joy McNally (Diaz) and Jack Fuller (Kutcher) meet in Vegas after their respective lives begin to unravel. After finding themselves booked in the same room at a Vegas hotel, they party together and wake up to find themselves married to each other. After deciding that they are...
Von Bondies mix anger and pop on comeback disc
By Yusuf Siddiquee / May 13, 2008
Back in 2004 you might have heard a song called “C’mon C’mon” by The Von Bondies and a so-called “garage rock” movement before that. Their 2004 album, called Pawn Shoppe Heart, was released to generally favorable reviews and The Von Bondies were a hot item that year, sure to make some kind of mark in their genre for us to remember. Then, they disappeared. Four years later and now back on the road, lead man Jason Stollsteimer and company are ready to release their third full-length album, Love, Hate, and Then There’s You. I got a chance to catch up...
The Weary Epicurean—May 13, 2008
By James Kraft / May 13, 2008
Robin Peterson of the Chicago Weekly recently commented on the rather cool reception by American college students of the popular food movement commonly known as Slow Food. Apparently, many students at the University of Chicago find the idea of cooking one’s own meals from natural ingredients and eating them slowly in the company of friends and family “elitist.” One student at a recent Slow Food event complained that Slow Food dinners, in which like-minded lovers of best-quality produce lovingly crafted a meal according to the dictates of a beautiful, highly traditional cuisine, are “just a group of wealthy people who...
Goodman reduces Emmett Till to black and white
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 9, 2008
[img id=”80588″ align=”alignleft”] One of the biggest challenges that playwright Ifa Bayeza faced in translating the story of Emmett Till to the stage was balancing Emmett Till, the human being, and Emmett Till, the idea. The story of Till, the young Chicagoan who was brutally murdered while visiting family in Mississippi, became a clarion call for the civil rights movement. Yet Bayeza has stated that she did not want The Ballad of Emmett Till to be political theater, but rather an attempt to tell the often forgotten story of Emmett the young man. That premise may hold in the first...
VHS or Beta pauses from tour, enters rock world with Comets
By Sierra Sterling / May 9, 2008
[img id=”80586″ align=”alignleft”] VHS or Beta, the Louisville, KY band known for its soaring rock, dance punk, and French house–inspired albums Le Funk and Night Fire, recently released a disc called Bring on the Comets that integrates those elements into a more straightforward rock sound. Although the band is currently in the middle of a grueling spring tour with stops everywhere from Omaha to Buenos Aires, I was able to catch up with Craig Pfunder, the lead guitarist and vocalist for the band. We talked about the new album, the future of the music industry, and government misuse of religion....
McKeag, Presidents inaugurate American tour
By Christine Yang / May 9, 2008
[img id=”80584″ align=”alignleft”] A band formed in the early ’90s to contrast the flannel-ridden grunge scene, The Presidents of the United States of America are still around, while its counterparts Nirvana and Alice in Chains are not. Still bubbly from the release of the Presidents’ newest album These are the Good Times People, the newest President and guitbass player Andrew McKeag sat down with me for an interview to talk about the album and the string of shows across the U.S. that does not quite qualify as a North American tour (including the show in Chicago on May 9). Christine...
The Gadabout—May 9, 2008
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / May 9, 2008
As ancient as Turkey is, Turkish food beyond the shish kebab is still a new concept for the American palate. The country brings to mind bad puns about birds, curly mustaches, and They Might Be Giants songs far more than it does, say, creamily thick yogurt—even though the word “yogurt” is derived from Turkish. We take a surprising amount of Turkish food for granted, which is exactly why we need a place like Nazarlik. Nazarlik, located about a mile away from the Belmont Triangle, is a humble eatery that celebrates its authenticity with homey charm. There are no belly dancers,...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—May 9, 2008
By Ben Rossi / May 9, 2008
Friday / May 9 The stage at the Pritzker Pavilion in Millennium Park plays host to a live simulcast of the Chicago Opera Theater’s production of Don Giovanni, performed concurrently at the Harris Theater. The first of its kind in Chicago performance history, the simulcast is free and allows you to enjoy the beautiful spring weather to the tunes of Mozart’s great opera. (205 East Randolph Street, 7:30 p.m., free) The Music Box screens Roger Corman’s feisty, twee Rock ’N’ Roll High School tonight. Billed by the Box as the Hard Day’s Night of the punk era, the movie follows...
Robert Downey, Jr., fights, smites, and lives again
By Michael Lipkin / May 6, 2008
Screw the iPhone. The latest toy on every geek’s wish list is sure to be the iMan. Trotting out one of its less well known characters—Spider-Man and the Hulk are so done—Marvel presents a surprisingly faithful screen adaptation of the Iron Man story that succeeds in an area where most other comic-book movies fail. Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) is a multizillionaire engineering prodigy who owns a weapons manufacturing company and couldn’t care less. While on a trip to Afghanistan to show off his latest missile, Stark gets kidnapped by a group of terrorists who demand missiles of their own....
Over the hill, MCA reaches deep into collection for retrospective
By Jessica Hester / May 6, 2008
To celebrate its 40th anniversary, the Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA) is throwing itself a birthday party of sorts. After the Gordon Matta-Clark exhibition You Are the Measure’s closing, the MCA will present a three-part series of mini-retrospectives chronicling the development of eight of the most innovate artists of the last 40 years. The year-long retrospective exhibition, entitled Artists in Depth: Works from the MCA Collection, showcases the crème de la crème of the museum’s permanent collection. The first installment, which runs through October 26, consists of a group of drawings and a film by William Kentridge. Kentridge is a...
The Weary Epicurean—May 6, 2008
By James Kraft / May 6, 2008
In his fascinating and hilarious kitchen memoir Heat, Bill Buford proposes a useful dichotomy of cooks. Basically, there are “pastry cooks” and “meat cooks.” He does not mean this literally; he is not trying to suggest that all cooks in the world are either pâtissiers or charcutiers by training. But he does mean that all cooks have the outlook either of a meat-worker or a flour-worker, and I agree that this is the case. “Pastry cooks” are all about precision and measurement. They are the scientists of cooking, the flour-sifters and the cup-levelers. They like materials like butter and water,...
Shortcuts: Portishead—Third
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 6, 2008
Portishead, one of the better bands to come out of the mid-’90s trip-hop movement, seems to have transformed background music into a legitimate art form. If all elevator music sounded like Portishead, we wouldn’t use the term as a slur. By integrating hip-hop beats with distinctly feminine blues singing and dashes of electronica, Portishead, along with Massive Attack, helped pioneer one of the most distinct musical movements of the last 20 years. Third, the band’s first album since their 1998 live album PNYC, doesn’t deviate from the formula all that much, but its baffling number of twists and turns demonstrates...
Shortcuts: Robyn—Robyn
By Emale Gray / May 6, 2008
If you’ve been reading perezhilton.com over the past month, you may have noticed the appearance of a pale white girl with bangs that swoop across her face like a bird’s wing. Remember the ’97 hit “Show Me Love”? Over a decade later, singer Robyn has revamped not only her hair but also her musical tastes, dropping the bubblegum pop she was known for and maturing into a sound that blends electronica and hip-hop into what can only be described as new wave pop—or Robyn. A grand reopening more than ten years late, this self-titled American re-debut begins with a dramatic,...
Hunt melodrama can’t find its heart
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 1, 2008
In 21st-century American movie culture, where anything with fewer than two explosions fails to attract an enormous audience, the label “boring” can be applied to any film that doesn’t increase your heart rate at least 20 beats per second. That makes distinguishing between 20th- and 21st- century standards of boring a particular challenge—think Bad Boys vs. Bad Boys II. Nonetheless, by any standard you’re more likely to fall asleep than be captivated by Then She Found Me, a film that seems to be the living embodiment of the adjective “flat.” Based on the 1990 novel by Elinor Lipman, Then She...
Romantic comedy retread deserves no honors
By Evelyn Wiese / May 1, 2008
What happens when you’re still single, approaching (gasp) 30, and your best friend gets engaged? If you’re the lead in a romantic comedy, the engagement must be to a physically flawless, über-wealthy, and unrelentingly charming blond, and you’ll be tapped to be the maid of honor. So, immediately after realizing that you’re in love with your now-unavailable best friend, you’ll accept a key role in the wedding and pull out all the stops in self-abasement to prove that, despite all those years of platonic friendship, you are really the one for her, engagement be damned. And, that, in a nutshell,...
Racy, modern Giovanni dies in second act
By Christine Yang / May 1, 2008
On the sin-o-meter, ghastly murders and Ozzy Osbourne’s bat-biting escapades register at the very sinful extreme, while Mozart is commonly thought to settle at the other end of the spectrum along with unicorns, butterflies, and gumdrops. However, after seeing the Chicago Opera Theater’s production of Mozart’s Don Giovanni, it might be necessary to revise that assessment. Don Giovanni brings wild parties, sex, and murder to the stage. The opera starts off with a deceptively reserved orchestral suite; the only things suggesting the less-than-decent are the red florescent lights hanging over the musicians. When the curtain is lifted, a scene much...
Shortcuts—Elbow’s The Seldom Seen Kid
By Ben Rossi / May 1, 2008
Elbow’s fourth studio album, The Seldom Seen Kid, arrives just in time for a spring love affair, for which it seems tailor-made. The album tells a vague story of new love mixed with a more than healthy dose of alcohol use: A natural combination. The music, at times almost mantra-like in its simplicity, is easily committed to memory, although every listen is rewarded with some new discovery. It’s undeniable—if you must fall in love and maybe get your heart broken this spring, make your soundtrack The Seldom Seen Kid. The first track, “Starlings,” might sound like it’s better suited to...
STD (Stuff to Do)—May 2, 2008
By Ben Rossi / May 1, 2008
Friday / May 2 Reputed by the Chicago Reader’s Jonathan Rosenbaum to be the greatest film ever made, Alain Resnais’s 1961 Last Year at Marienbad was a landmark of the French New Wave and has remained a critical darling 40 years after. The premise of the feature is simple: Did a man have an affair with a woman he just met? Not to be missed. (3733 North Southport Avenue, 7:20 p.m., $9.25) A probing new documentary by that king of documentaries, Errol Morris (director of Fog of War, an unsettling interview-based account of Robert MacNamara’s career), opens tonight at the...
 
Robin’s play psychs out second city
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 29, 2008
Most famous for her work in Six Feet Under, Kate Robin has struggled with her play Intrigue with Faye, rewriting it before and after its New York premiere. Considering that the play got mediocre reviews in that production, which featured the star power of Benjamin Bratt and Julianna Margulies, it took considerable bravery on the part of InFusion Theatre Company to stage the play in Chicago with less well known local actors. Yet the minimalism and lowered expectations surrounding the play’s Midwestern premiere have actually worked to its advantage, as the smallness of InFusion’s production gives Intrigue with Faye a...
Sketch show marks cultural decline, Great Job!
By Yusuf Siddiquee / April 29, 2008
Watching Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!, a sketch-based comedy on Adult Swim, I realized that Mike Judge was really onto something when he wrote the story for his movie Idiocracy. In the film, Americans 500 years from now are so intellectually impoverished that people considered to be of average intelligence today are regarded as super-geniuses. The most popular TV show in this future world is called Ow, My Balls!!!, in which the only thing that happens to the main character is a series of painful encounters of random objects with his testicles. Awesome Show is clearly a foretaste...
Exhibit not the last hurrah for art grads
By Mitch Montoya / April 29, 2008
Corrections appended. The scene at the School of the Art Institute’s Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) exhibition is less like a display of students’ tiresome attempts to recreate famous works of art and more like a boisterous ’80s-style prom where the viewers become part of the party. As people walk into the gallery, they pass through the all-too-familiar balloon arches from high school and stumble into a world of boys and girls dancing the night away in neon-colored apparel. Of course, the graduate-student exhibition is more than a psychedelic party, but this innovative assortment of art—including the prom itself—is part...
Stardom may pay Jenkins a visit after latest role
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 29, 2008
Richard Jenkins has been a constant presence in film and television, whether audiences have been aware of it or not. With roles ranging from the deceased father in Six Feet Under to a parody of a conservative Midwesterner in I Heart Huckabees, Jenkins has been a true character actor, someone who makes the rest of the cast look better instead of drawing attention to himself. With The Visitor, Jenkins has finally been given the starring role he’s deserved for years. He plays Walter Vale, a crusty, detached economics professor at Connecticut College who rekindles his passion for life after meeting...
Rising Stars turn out a squeaky wheel of a production
By MaryBeth Gronek / April 29, 2008
Does Rydell High need a makeover? The Rising Stars Theater Company (TRSTC) seems to think so—they have offered a new take on the blockbuster and Broadway hit Grease. But the success of such makeovers is a matter of opinion, especially if Frenchy is the beautician. This new take may seem innovative and unconventional to some, but it may leave others a bit unsatisfied. There are many glaring changes to the score, including alterations and omissions to the order of the songs. The infamous “Look at me, I’m Sandra Dee” does not take place at the pajama party, but is instead...
The Weary Epicurean—April 29, 2008
By James Kraft / April 29, 2008
We are living in the golden age of television cooking contests. This odd hybrid format, which didn’t even exist until 1993, is now primetime television not just on the lowly Food Network, but on market leaders like Fox and Bravo—and for good reason, too. Whether you like looking at luscious images of gourmet food, the Real World–esque human drama, or just enjoy watching other people judge one another, TV cook-offs are the way to go. We’ve come a long way since the Food Network brought Iron Chef to America, though a part of my heart has never left Kitchen Stadium....
Harold and Kumar return, still stoned and savvy
By Matt Zakosek / April 24, 2008
[img id=”80528″ align=”alignleft”] With nothing but Gregg Araki’s surprisingly bleak Smiley Face to fill the stoner-movie void of late, the return of Harold (John Cho) and Kumar (Kal Penn) to the big screen is especially welcome. Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay is every bit as entertaining, absurd, and subversively witty as 2004’s Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle—even without the help of a certain mind-altering substance. In a true rarity among sequels, it improves upon the original, employing all the elements that made its predecessor a success and amplifying them to hilarious effect. Anthropomorphic big bag of...
Weekend festival turns city into art destination for all tastes
By Jessica Hester / April 24, 2008
For many Chicagoans, warm weather is synonymous with the Cubs, not Chagall. Others associate springtime in the city with the Sox, but not Seurat. This weekend, maybe baseball rivals can call a temporary truce and meet halfway—at the Merchandise Mart, halfway between Wrigley and Cellular Field. It’s hard to imagine passionate Chicago baseball fans peacefully coexisting in one building, but this won’t be your average Chicago weekend. From April 25 to 28, the Windy City will become ARTropolis. This annual Chicago-wide celebration of arts, antiques, and culture consists of five formal shows and innumerable exhibitions, performances, screenings, and panel discussions....
HPAC busts a move for 24-hour bash
By Pete Russell / April 24, 2008
Look out for pyromaniacs, rollerblading painters, and everything New Age in a van this weekend, when the Hyde Park Art Center (HPAC) hosts its much-anticipated Creative Move: Moving Mountains. This 24-hour arts festival will be kicking off at 6 p.m. on Friday and continuing until Saturday at 8 p.m.—and the whole thing is free, even the two extra hours. The shindig starts with the opening of Kelly Kaczynski’s latest kinetic sculpture. Kaczynski’s works are meticulously crafted; the piece that will open the festival consists of two small-scale Tatlin’s Towers made of plywood, dowels in complex trusses, and chopped-up two-by-fours glued...
Gadabout—Berry Chill
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / April 24, 2008
Frozen yogurt is a craze with cultures, a trend with tang, a fad with flavor—and version 2.0 is finally here. After three years of playing monkey in the middle with New York and Los Angeles, Chicago has jumped on the natural, non-fat frozen yogurt bandwagon with gusto. Starfruit in Wicker Park markets the yogurt-like, probiotic-chocked Kefir, and Yoberri is master of Lakeview’s frozen-yogurt domain. Red Mango, one of the original yogurt behemoths, will take up residence in Evanston and Naperville within the month. The first to open Chicago’s frozen floodgates, though, was Berry Chill, a “yogurt-couture bar” in Near North...
STD (Stuff to Do)—Friday, April 25, 2008
By Ben Rossi / April 24, 2008
Friday / April 25 Genre-busting singer and composer Luciana Souza, a three-time Grammy nominee and teacher at the Manhattan School of Music, leads her trio through a program that draws on classical, Brazilian, and jazz music tonight at Mandell Hall. This intimate performance—featuring only drums, bass, guitar, and Souza’s voice—is sure to be one of the high points of this year’s concert program. (Mandel Hall, 7:30–9:30 p.m., $5 for students) Representing more than 180 galleries from around the world, the Art Chicago festival at Merchandise Mart is the centerpiece of Chicago’s ARTropolis festival, ongoing through the end of the week....
Black is a lot more than a color at the Ren Society
By Pete Russell / April 21, 2008
Black Is, Black Ain’t is an apt name for the most recent Renaissance Society exhibition, which explicates the issue of race in modern American culture. Just like Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man, the novel from which its title comes, the exhibit offers no resolution. Black Is, Black Ain’t addresses the complexity of race and the absurdity of the simple distinction between black and white. The first conspicuous piece upon entering the exhibit is composed of the two words “negro sunshine,” backlit and written in black metal that looks like fluorescent tubing. The abundance of irony, racial tropes, and above all the...
Lewis and Clark has American foreign policy in its sights
By MaryBeth Gronek / April 21, 2008
[img id=”80503″ align=”alignleft”] “A promise to bring back the facts…all the facts”—this powerful oath opens the Infamous Commonwealth Theatre’s production of Lewis and Clark Reach the Euphrates. These opening words exemplify the play’s uncensored, unedited attempt to highlight the gruesome reality of violence and war in United States history. While traveling through the uncharted area of the Louisiana Purchase, Lewis and Clark run into famous figures such as Teddy Roosevelt, Sacagawea, Colin Powell, and Donald Rumsfeld. Lewis and Clark’s mission of truthfully documenting the details of their findings provides audience members with an uncut and rather negative account of the...
McCarthy film visits detention center, warms hearts
By Abigail Brown / April 21, 2008
[img id=”80501″ align=”alignleft”] The Visitor, directed by Thomas McCarthy, moves with the slow pace of the film’s main character. Retaining a highly emotional tone throughout, the film follows a lost man who sees those around him as an opportunity for redemption. McCarthy chooses to follow the pathetic nature of Walter Vale (Richard Jenkins) rather than focus on the fast-paced plot. Though Walter becomes more animated as the film progresses, the film itself seems locked into the original slow pace. It never catches up to the quick tempo of the bucket beating Walter listens to in New York City’s Washington Park....
The Weary Epicurean—April 22, 2008
By James Kraft / April 21, 2008
It is, at last, that time of year when the leaves turn green, the sleeves grow short, and the beer is served with lemon: springtime. How better to toast the season than with a frosty yard of ale? Unfortunately, Hyde Park is rather lacking when it comes to good spring bars. No, our places of alcohol consumption tend to be dark and warm, built like bomb shelters with friendly shadows. In spring, one must retreat to one’s porch for sunny, afternoon drinking, or maybe brown-bag it on the quadrangles or at the Point. The recent surge in popularity of the...
88 Minutes never lasted so long
By Zack Hill / April 18, 2008
[img id=”80495″ align=”alignleft”] The new Al Pacino thriller 88 Minutes makes one wonder what motivated those involved with this boring, unnecessary film. Pacino’s reason was presumably inspired by a very relatable problem: He needed a few million dollars to buy a new mansion. Perhaps the director, Jon Avnet (Fried Green Tomatoes), wanted a new boat or something. And we certainly can’t blame the B-actors who fill out the cast. If I were that smug-looking guy from the O.C., or if I had previously resorted to starring in an Uwe Boll feature, I’d jump on the opportunity to be in a...
Forest majors in self-discovery, Hyde Park angst
By Lisbeth Redfield / April 18, 2008
[img id=”80493″ align=”alignleft”] Sachiko Hamada’s debut novel, Forest in F Minor, is at once distant and too close. Set in the late ’70s, it describes an aggressive, educated Japanese woman redefining herself in the familiar environment of Regenstein Library, the Checkerboard Lounge, and the Art Institute of Chicago. In 1979, Japanese artist and feminist Mizuo Henmei moves to Hyde Park with her husband Nomi, who has a Fulbright grant to do a Ph.D. in economics at the University of Chicago. Mizuo, arriving three months after Nomi, is forced to deal not only with culture shock, but also with the changing...
Desi DJs serve up hip-hop at Lab School
By Jingru Yang / April 18, 2008
Unless you spent spring break knocking about the Subcontinent Wes Anderson–style or taking in the club scene on a few select streets in New York City, you’ve probably never heard hip-hop quite like the kind that’s landing in the Chicago area this weekend. Cultural organizations from both the University of Chicago and Northwestern University have collaborated to organize a three-day series of discussion panels, workshops, and performances that they refer to as HipHopistan, a Sanskrit play on words that translates as “the land of hip-hop.” The most notable of the events located in Hyde Park is a concert, to be...
Dodos rise from extinction, play in Shoreland
By Andreas Nahas / April 18, 2008
It was by pure chance that first-year John Paul Thompson, owner of Pandarosa Records and member of Roomsound, heard of the Dodos. His brother and bandmate Joe Thompson was seeing an Akron/Family show in Los Angeles, a show the Dodos (called Dodo Bird at the time) opened for. Joe was blown away by the Dodos’ sound, and now more than two years later, Roomsound is opening for the Dodos tonight in the Shoreland ballroom for a free concert. The Dodos stop by the Shoreland for the one-month anniversary of their new, critically acclaimed album Visitor, released by Frenchkiss Records, a...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—April 18, 2008
By Ben Rossi / April 18, 2008
Friday / April 18 A flawed work of daring brilliance, There Will Be Blood will never be a big Saturday night rental, what with its unsettling soundtrack, indulgent cinematography, and most of all, Daniel Day Lewis’s indelible turn as the monomaniacal oil prospector Daniel Plainview. The film is a study in the dark, unbridled energy of capitalism in a world without viable alternatives, and as such, it can look very much like it’s invested in the shallow view that egotism rules. Fortunately, Lewis’s performance consistently pulls the film out of its own gloom. (Max Palevsky Cinema, 7 and 10 p.m.,...
Jackie and Jet join forces against evil—at last
By James Conway / April 18, 2008
[img id=”80489″ align=”alignleft”] The plot of Forbidden Kingdom is not that important. More significant is that the film features Jackie Chan and Jet Li, two of the greatest kung fu artists since Sonny Chiba and Bruce Lee, sharing the same screen for the first time—for American audiences, anyway. The film in a nutshell is about a young man named Jason (Michael Angarano), a South Boston native who is addicted to purchasing bad kung fu movies from a local pawnshop. One day some bad guys rob the shop, and Jason is forced to protect the owner’s sacred relic, a golden rod...
Chicano art up close—Con Safos
By Charles Yarborough / April 18, 2008
Name not withstanding, the National Museum of Mexican Art is a rather unprepossessing place: a smallish stucco–brick building in a suburb 20 minutes away from campus. One would not expect a fascinating, if somewhat unfocused, collection of contemporary Chicano art in such a place. The National Museum, however, has found its niche, and has collected a testament to the wildly different artistic reactions to the movement and culture of economically dispossessed Mexicans. This is an ambitious plan, of course. The exhibit does strive for a kind of comprehension, but unfortunately fails to construct Con Safos showcases a remarkable variety of...
Film skims surface of family, fascism
By Jingru Yang / April 15, 2008
Those who have never been to Italy—and whose only lens on the place comes in the form of that nation’s artistic exports—generally have good reason to picture the country as nothing but one giant mess of bad traffic, social discord, and spectacle, abbreviated with scolding mothers and punctuated by expressive hands. Daniele Luchetti’s My Brother is an Only Child is a film in this canonical vein, and with a storyline focused on feuding brothers Manrico and Accio, is the latest take on depicting a fascination with fraternal ties that arguably goes back to the country’s mythical founding. A drama about...
Humor left black and blue at HPAC exhibit
By Ben Rossi / April 15, 2008
[img id=”80487″ align=”alignleft”] Between the late ’60s and mid-’80s, a number of black comics rose to national prominence by way of their ribald humor, which served as a vehicle for strident social criticism. Richard Pryor, Red Foxx, and Eddie Murphy truly shocked white audiences for a time. But that was then. Now, African-American comedy has been fully assimilated into mainstream culture. But the Hyde Park Art Center (HPAC)—and the artists in the Center’s new exhibit, Disinhibition: Black Art and Blue Humor—apparently missed that memo. Most of the works on view are failures both as art and as humor. The HPAC...
Students rise to Vegan Week challenge
By Nora Sorena Casey / April 15, 2008
There were a number of facts I learned at Try Vegan Week that represented the different impacts of veganism. For example, a lot of pasta is made with eggs in it. Individually, vegans use 300 gallons of water daily, while omnivores use 4,200. And the semen and vaginal secretions of vegans taste better and are more nutritional than those of meat eaters. The Chicago Vegan Society hosted Try Vegan Week last week to challenge students to try veganism for the week. Free food each night and lectures about the goals and challenges of being vegan were offered to encourage students....
Kitsch mistaken for counterculture
By Pete Russell / April 15, 2008
My trip to see the new exhibition at South Union Arts started out like a horror movie. I strode up and down the same few desolate blocks in the cold rain looking for the place and finally resolved to seek shelter in an eerie old Baptist church whose unlit neon sign and locked front door added to the mystery. As it happened, this was my destination. I entered through a side door and was at first relieved by the building’s warmth. But I knew better than to let down my guard, for the grotesque, tasteless art was still to come....
Shortcuts: Mariah Carey—E=MC^2
By Emale Gray / April 15, 2008
[img id=”80485″ align=”alignleft”] After an emotional breakdown, two pitiful recordings (Glitter and Charmbracelet), and a brief stint as an actress, Mariah Carey was once again recognized as a functional human being for The Emancipation of Mimi, which included such hits as “We Belong Together,” a repackaged version Lil’ Jon’s “Lovers and Friends,” and “Don’t Forget About Us,” the Reloaded version of “We Belong Together.” The latter was so good, it made the Ultra Platinum Edition of Mimi’s Emancipation worth buying for those who missed her album the first time around. Carey continues this formula for success on her newest attempt...
The Weary Epicurean—April 15, 2008
By James Kraft / April 15, 2008
I have a perpetual bone to pick with those who refuse to acknowledge the culinary arts as Art with a capital “A.” Art communicates ideas, expresses emotional content, stuns one sensually—just as food should do. But to suggest such an argument in a serious conversation invites ridicule and scorn from a great many people. The most common counterclaim to food as Art is that it’s too practical. The best food, it is argued, is the most nutritious (!), and good nutrition is not an aesthetic question. What balderdash. What makes us human, as the Republic so elegantly puts it, is...
Exhibit puts the “art” back in artifacts
By Italia Patti / April 10, 2008
[img id=”80461″ align=”alignleft”] The most exciting thing about Idol Anxiety at the Smart Museum is that it is at the Smart Museum. The show borrows many of the objects on display from museums like the Oriental Institute where they are displayed more as artifacts than art objects. This show asks viewers to ponder them in this instance as pieces of art. Of course, the show does not ignore the context and history of the pieces—in the same way that institutions like the Oriental Institute do not ignore their artistic significance. Still, simply presenting the works in an art museum forces...
Caribou brings chameleon ethos to the stage
By Sierra Sterling / April 10, 2008
[img id=”80459″ align=”alignleft”] Caribou’s kaleidoscopic, psychedelic indie rock is really difficult to get out of your head. Talking to Dan Snaith, the front man for the group (formerly known as Manitoba), it becomes clear that this quality is no accident. Rather than penning angsty or emotionally devastating missives like so many indie musicians out there, Snaith prefers to create full-fledged, sophisticated soundscapes. The lyrics seem secondary, and Snaith’s falsetto tenor soars over his intricate music, sprinkling it with glitter and bliss. “The music is far more important than the lyrics to me,” Snaith explains. “The lyrics are there to mirror...
Lunchtime play serves up existential fare
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 10, 2008
Going out to lunch with mom is a premise perfectly suited for a one-act play, and it’s a credit to playwright Joel Drake Johnson for using this setup accordingly in Four Places. Four Places, which feels long for its 90 minutes, couldn’t be a better selection for the Victory Gardens: It appeals to the blue-haired subscriber crowd, but it’s also a vibrant new play from an in-house playwright with a lot to offer to the literati. When I walked into the theater and surveyed the audience—not to mention heard Andy Williams and Perry Como playing before the curtain—I thought I...
Shortcuts—R.E.M.’s Accelerate
By Ben Rossi / April 10, 2008
[img id=”80457″ align=”alignleft”] Few aging bands so plainly advertise their method of redeeming themselves after a string of lackluster albums as R.E.M. The 28-year-old band spells it out right in the title of their new disc: Accelerate. Clocking in at a blistering 35 minutes, Accelerate is a juggernaut of an album that, if it doesn’t reinvent the wheel, still augers better things to come. With Jackknife Lee—who also produced U2’s How to Dismantle an Atomic Bomb, which did for that band what Accelerate does for R.E.M.—at the helm, the band dispenses with the dirge-like ballads and listless guitar solos of...
The Gadabout—April 11, 2008
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / April 10, 2008
Last week was Thai food; a burger from the Med the week before. Hyde Park may be Chicago’s intellectual Mecca, but it’s also the city’s culinary wasteland. The last major change in the neighborhood food scene was when Noodles Etc. closed one restaurant to open another. The nicest place to go was Le Petite Folie, where the French cuisine pairs wine with tenured professors, but not with twentysomething college students. Hyde Park has never really known something new or something hip in recent memory—at least, until Park 52. Sprung forth from the mind of restauranteur Jerry Kleiner like an arthritic...
STD (Stuff to Do)—April 11, 2008
By Ben Rossi / April 10, 2008
Friday/April 11 Tour the artists’ enclave of East Pilsen tonight when studios and galleries open their doors for public receptions and new art showings as part of Chicago Arts District 2nd Fridays. Just walking around this funky neighborhood with its historic architecture and beautiful courtyard gardens on a spring night is worth it. (Information booth at 1821 South Halsted Street, 6–10 p.m., free) After a blockbuster run on Broadway, The Drowsy Chaperone has finally made its way to Chicago. It’s a quirky little musical-within-a-show about a lonely cardigan-clad New Yorker who plays the vinyl recording of an obscure 1920s revue...
Hostel influence can’t spoil Ruins’s B-movie charm
By Matt Zakosek / April 8, 2008
[img id=”80453″ align=”alignleft”] Thanks to the likes of Hostel and Saw, it seems every horror movie of the last four years has run on a surfeit of gore and a deficit of wit. The lone exception, Michael Haneke’s Funny Games—not technically a horror film—made up for its off-screen violence with unrelenting sadism. For audiences wary of all the viscera, The Ruins, released in the cinematic dog days of spring, offers a welcome respite. Oh, sure, you’ll see multiple shootings and stabbings, a man’s bone yanked out of its socket, and a terrified young woman slicing into her own forehead. But...
Online social networking takes a Risk with GoCrossCampus
By Brian White / April 8, 2008
[img id=”80449″ align=”alignleft”] It’s always been something of an overplayed joke among first-years in Burton-Judson that the dorm resembles a castle and that if Mongol hordes were to besiege the campus it would be the best place to hole up. But starting today, people might start to take this joke a little more seriously. That’s because the University of Chicago round of GoCrossCampus.com, a strange amalgamation of Facebook, intramural sports, and a massively multiplayer online version of Risk, begins today. GoCrossCampus began as a small project of a couple of Ivy League students and has since grown into a community...
Fellini-inspired musical felled by bad acting, lack of substance
By William Glick / April 8, 2008
[img id=”80447″ align=”alignleft”] At the 1982 Tony Awards, two musicals were deadlocked for the big prize: Dreamgirls, the pop musical based on the career of Diana Ross and the Supremes, and Nine, Maury Yeston’s musical loosely based on the 1963 Fellini film, 8 1/2. While it may have seemed that the more popular choice would take the top prize, Nine ultimately prevailed. Musicals like Nine, dealing with complicated topics like love, age, dreams, childhood, and inspiration, were certainly a rare breed in the 1980s, when Broadway was dominated by the pop operas of Andrew Lloyd Weber. Nine, therefore, stands as...
Whimsy gives Ruhl’s Cell Phone good reception
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 8, 2008
[img id=”80445″ align=”alignleft”] Once wholly separate, the theater cultures of Chicago and New York have become increasingly intertwined of late. August: Osage County, a Steppenwolf transfer to Broadway, is well on its way to sweeping the Tonys. Broadway in Chicago is finally starting to show signs of success. And Sarah Ruhl, a Chicago native, had her newest play Dead Man’s Cell Phone premiere in New York before Chicago. This is a large development for a playwright who hadn’t even been produced in New York until 2006. Far from the second-hand productions that New York–Chicago transfers often are, the Steppenwolf’s take...
The Weary Epicurean—April 8, 2008
By James Kraft / April 7, 2008
There is no meal dearer to the heart of the typical college student than Sunday brunch. Whether it’s a pancake flight at Orange or a sausage-and-cheese omelet at Valois, there’s something about 10 a.m. on the day of rest that begs for unnecessary amounts of pork fat—and maybe fruit compote on the side. This is particularly the case in Chicago, which has developed something of a “brunch scene,” especially in its many young urban professional neighborhoods like Wicker Park and the South Loop. Dozens flock to fashionable spots like Bistro 110 on the Magnificent Mile or Wishbone in the West...
Haacke’s history promises more than a circus act
By Jessica Hester / April 4, 2008
More than 30 years ago, he became an art-world renegade when he refused to placate one of the most esteemed contemporary art museums in the world. On Monday, famed and highly controversial conceptual artist Hans Haacke will present an inventive performance entitled Dog and Pony Show at the Court Theatre, followed by a moderated discussion. Haacke’s performance is one of three residencies sponsored this academic year by the University’s ArtSpeaks Fellows Program. Now in its fourth year, ArtSpeaks gives the University community the chance to interact with prominent artists in an intimate setting. The fellowship, funded by the University’s Arts...
Unrest visits the family, audience in Chekov’s Uncle Vanya
By Jingru Yang / April 4, 2008
Sojourns to the countryside can inspire great clarity—or, if they go badly, they can engender loneliness, uncertainty, and general misdirection. In the first production of a season uncharacteristically devoted to well known works of theater, TUTA Theatre Chicago offers up a strong dose of Chekhovian existentialism in their alternately comic and desolate rendition of Uncle Vanya, the classic chronicle of a country household disrupted by visiting intellectual relatives who bring with them all manner of psychological malaise. Attendees are handed a bottle of pillow mint “pills,” presumably to fortify them against the voyeuristic experience to come; then they are ushered...
Second-rate cinematography sours My Blueberry Nights
By Seth Satterlee / April 4, 2008
Today, My Blueberry Nights makes its American debut as director Wong Kar-Wai’s first English-language film. For the past year the film has been surrounded with an understandable amount of intrigue. Look at a poster or one of the previews, and it’s hard not to see why—Natalie Portman, Jude Law, and Rachel Weisz in a Wong Kar-Wai film? It’s a combination that will never fail to generate intrigue and rightful speculation. Maintaining the same fitful mood of Wong’s other films, the narrative feels like a 90-minute ramble with a bit more clarity than his previous work. Beginning with its protagonist however,...
Shortcuts: Danity Kane–Welcome to the Dollhouse
By Emale Gray / April 4, 2008
“Producing failures since 1999” is just one of the possible slogans for the depressing talent search known as Making the Band. Since the show’s conception, bands such as O-Town and Da Band have failed to produce anything except moderately entertaining hours of television and lackluster albums. Lou Pearlman—Backstreet Boys’s and ’N Sync’s personal pickpocket—nurtured O-Town, who embarrassingly revealed their “Liquid Dreams” to the world. Following their demise, Diddy and MTV rebuilt the show and helmed the monstrosity Da Band, a talentless group of no-names who couldn’t stay together long enough to make it past their first single. Supposedly, Diddy claimed...
STD (Stuff to Do)—Friday, April 4, 2008
By Ben Rossi / April 4, 2008
Friday/April 4 The Coen brothers’ No Country for Old Men, 2008 Oscar-sweeper and one of the first films of the decade to become a cultural touchstone, screens at Doc this evening. Returning to their favorite subject—the unpredictable consequences of crime—the Coens call on the tropes of Western, thriller, and suspense genres to both revel in and subvert them. A virtuosic display of technical ability in cinematography and story structure, the film is also weighty enough to leave you with more than just the terrifying image of Javier Bardem as the serial killer Anton Chigurh—but this is quite enough. (Max Palevsky...
Storm clouds brew behind the badge
By Supriya Sinhababu / March 11, 2008
Blindfold half the audience of A Steady Rain, and its reaction to the play probably wouldn’t be too different from that of the other half. Other than the trembling lower lip of Joey (Peter DeFaria) as he relates each new tragedy and the foot-long string of drool that hangs from the mouth of Denny (Randy Steinmeyer) in one of his most far-gone scenes, a blind audience wouldn’t miss much. A Steady Rain is one of those increasingly rare plays that runs almost completely on storytelling, not spectacle. Thanks to playwright Keith Huff’s sometimes painfully vivid story, Denny and Joey’s back-and-forth...
Doty disgusts and delights at MCA
By Mitch Montoya / March 11, 2008
When featuring a new artist, a museum always runs the risk of displaying art that is not quite in tune with popular taste. While viewing a collection of photographs at the Museum of Contemporary Art by up-and-coming artist Craig Doty, there was, to say the least, a wide array of reactions. A young woman loudly paraded into the exhibit, exclaimed, “Ew!” and proceeded to tell her friends not to enter the room; a toddler strolled by with her parents and asked why the pictures looked like the characters in her Dr. Seuss books; and a seemingly mature couple viewing the...
Malkmus, Jicks take gold sounds on the road
By Evelyn Wiese / March 11, 2008
It’s very strange to hear Stephen Malkmus talk about trying to feed his daughter. At the start of a telephone press conference (and, yes, it’s very strange to participate in a telephone press conference, but that’s another story for another day) Malkmus could be heard telling someone, presumably his wife, about a feeding that—by the sounds of things—seemed to have gone slightly awry. “But maybe she’ll eat it anyways,” he said, his voice brimming with the shrugging tiredness and accepting befuddlement that one expects from the father of young children. Not, however, the stuff one expects of rock stars. And...
Ruscha reigns as king of the average tourist shot
By Italia Patti / March 11, 2008
The curator’s statement that greets visitors to Ed Ruscha and Photography states, “Although Ed Ruscha has consistently resisted the label of ‘photographer,’ the medium has been a resource, a vehicle, and a catalyst for his art.” After spending a few moments looking at his photographs, it may occur to viewers that this was more a warning than a mere description. There are some skillfully shot photographs in Ed Ruscha and Photography, currently on view at the Art Institute, but Ruscha does not engage with the medium of photography as well or as interestingly as he engages with other media. For...
Customers won’t need a guise to shop at this chic spot
By Mitch Montoya / March 11, 2008
At a recent party for the opening of a new style salon Guise/Chic, even the most fashionable person might have asked, “How in the world did I get here?” The party and the store are the epitome of a style mecca, and even for the best dressed person, this situation can be highly intimidating. Thankfully, Guise/Chic is the type of store that can make even the most unfashionable seem in style. According to co-owners of the store, Brad Habansky and Heidi Taylor (Jodi Kimmel is also a force on the women’s side), one of the goals of the newly integrated...
The Weary Epicurean—March 11, 2008
By James Kraft / March 11, 2008
I write a lot about “authenticity” in this column, and you know, that gets a little strained at times. I mean, I know a fair bit about Polish food, for instance, but I neither speak Polish, nor have I ever visited Poland, nor am I ethnically Polish. Even to write my last week’s article about coffee, I had to get one of my roommates, himself a true coffee geek, to bring me up to speed. But perhaps that’s part of what makes my pieces interesting: I have just the sort of mixed-up culinary heritage that most of my readers do....
Clothes-minded—March 11, 2008
By Allison Cassing / March 11, 2008
The Internet is an amazing thing. So is the fact that when my wireless connection is being flaky, I can feel the void immediately. I am disconnected and in need of updates from all my bookmarked locales. Just as in real life, my Internet life is made up of a high percentage of fashion. My daily reading includes a slew of apparel-focused sites that range from fashion news to celebrity style. There are so many accessible fashion sites that no matter what your online style, you’ll be able to find something to fit the bill. Keeping up on the latest...
Brits can’t keep Bank Job under wraps
By Jingru Yang / March 7, 2008
[img id=”80416″ align=”alignleft”] In September of 1971, a team of thieves broke into the vault of Lloyds Bank on London’s Baker Street, making off with over four million pounds in discreetly held valuables of some of the most highly placed members of British society. No one was ever charged in connection with the crime, and none of the money was ever recovered. Though news of the robbery caused an immediate wave of outrage and speculation, the British government swiftly issued a D-notice—usually reserved for matters of national security—on the whole affair, gagging further press coverage. Three decades later, screenwriters Dick...
Attempters succeed with clever high-school script
By Ben Rossi / March 7, 2008
[img id=”80412″ align=”alignleft”] Essentially a pastiche of every high-school romantic comedy ever made, The Attempters, which opened Wednesday night at The Building Stage, is a genuinely enjoyable—if slight—finale to the House Theater’s fifth season. The play is content with a tongue-and-cheek variation on all the venerable tropes of high school and rock-and-roll movies from American Graffiti to Superbad. And, in general, the audience will be content with it too. The play chronicles the travails of a precocious 17-year-old manic-depressive named Danny Hackles as he searches for fame down many dead-end streets. He’s invented his own language, become a 15-minute rock...
Titus gives love a healthy dose of realism
By James Kraft / March 7, 2008
Christopher Titus, the Emmy-nominated creator of Titus, a Fox situation comedy that ran for two years, is touring a new one-man show about love, hate, and the funny blend of love and hate most people call “relationships.” It’s playing at the Improv Theater this Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. In a recent telephone interview with the Maroon, Titus talked about his inspiration for the show, his career as a comedian, and a few other projects he’s got in the works these days. James Kraft: So tell us about your new show. Christopher Titus: I’m doing a show called L-O-V-E is E-V-I-L....
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—March 7, 2008
By Ben Rossi / March 7, 2008
Friday / March 7 Attend Hyde and Chic, MODA’s fourth annual spring fashion show, which promises a spectacular night of fashion showcasing original designs from students and Chicago designers. The Chicago store Akira will be showing off the newest spring trends for both men and women. The show will include opening performances by Le Vorris and Vox Circus, and Rythmic Bodies in Motion. Come for the latest fashions, free food, amazing goodie bags, and more. (Hutch Commons, 8–11:30 p.m., VIP tickets $10, regular tickets $5, tickets sold at Reynolds club from 12–3 p.m.) Andy Warhol’s enchanting 1966 installation, Silver Clouds,...
Students venture out of the cold and into the Folds
By Jim Ryan / March 4, 2008
[img id=”80398″ align=”alignleft”] Irony, Jews for Jesus, pots and pans, bass solos, and “Bitches ain’t shit”: These were the defining aspects of Saturday night’s Ben Folds and Eef Barzelay show at Mandel Hall. The night started typically enough, with hundreds of students waiting out in the relative cold as the line moved at a snail’s pace. While this surely annoyed many and caused a rushed start to Barzelay’s set, MAB has since explained that during the first 10 minutes security confiscated five (five!) knives (knives?!), and had to maintain thorough bag searches on the nearly 900 attending students. Seriously people,...
City of God sequel fails to find the flair of the favelas
By Andreas Nahas / March 4, 2008
[img id=”80396″ align=”alignleft”] About a third of the way into Paulo Morelli’s new film City of Men, there is a shot of a person throwing a trash bag down a cliff into a quarry full of garbage. The camera follows the bag as it gracefully dives down the cliff and then zooms out to find the film’s main characters looking for a dead body in the quarry. This shot is the film’s most depressing point; the rest of the film falls short of delivering anything as beautiful or graceful as this shot. City of Men has its roots in a...
Carousel comes ’round to Court
By Elizabeth Grobel / March 4, 2008
Expect to be weaned from the coddling breast of Broadway convention with Court Theatre’s production of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Carousel, which begins previews this Thursday—so hints director Charlie Newell (also Court’s artistic director since 1994), who’s in rehearsal 10 hours a day with cast and crew, even on Sundays. It’s a wonder he has time to give interviews. Court’s Carousel has its conceptual roots as much in Rodgers and Hammerstein as in their original source materials: the 1909 play Liliom by Ferenc Molnar and its 1934 film adaptation by Fritz Lang. Newell explained, “What struck me so much about [the...
The Weary Epicurean—March 4, 2008
By James Kraft / March 4, 2008
[img id=”80394″ align=”alignleft”] Recently, a friend of mine turned me on to a camp classic called Martha, Inc.: The Story of Martha Stewart. It’s a made-for-T.V. biopic of the life of Martha Stewart, starring Cybill Shepard—actually, it’s the first of two appearances by her in that role in recent years, the other being the more poorly received flick Martha Behind Bars, which was also made for T.V. I haven’t seen Martha Behind Bars yet, but Martha Inc. was just excellent. I highly recommend it; it’s crisp, kitschy entertainment at its best. Martha gets a tough rap nowadays, but I have...
Clothes-Minded—March 4, 2008
By Allison Cassing / March 4, 2008
About this time last year, I was editing my wardrobe into a fashionable spring collection for my quarter abroad in Paris. As with most travel, I wanted to have enough and then some (one underpacking experience and you forever overcompensate), but I was hoping to be able to manage my suitcases on my own upon arrival—cheers to free luggage carts in France! My friend, who had studied there in the fall, suggested just to bring my favorites. Unfortunately, most of my clothes are my favorites, and it’s quite hard to pick one good friend over another. So I packed what...
Donnelly conceals hidden treasure in spartan set
By Pete Russell / March 3, 2008
[img id=”80410″ align=”alignleft”] At her first opening in New York, Trisha Donnelly rode into the Casey Kaplan Gallery on a horse, wearing a Napoleonic outfit, and made a declaration of surrender that would have saved the emperor from his Waterloo. Her eccentricities are appreciated, as is her craftsmanship: Donnelly is well known for her ability to work comfortably with a wide variety of media, a talent that will be shown off at her eponymous exhibit at the Renaissance Society. This exhibit is a conceptual tour de minimal. The voluminous, naturally bright white room seems to be adorned with only two...
Uematsu brings Fantasy scores to life
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 29, 2008
[img id=”80382″ align=”alignleft”] The nerdiest concert event of the year rolls into town tomorrow night. No, it isn’t a Harry and the Potters show. No, it’s not the Harvard marching band. What fanboys and fangirls the nation over will flock to the second city for is the only U.S. performance of Distant Worlds: Music from Final Fantasy. Grammy Award–winning conductor Arnie Roth will lead the Chicagoland Pops Orchestra through the works of legendary game composer Nobuo Uematsu, who will also make a guest appearance. Does video-game music really deserve such an epic presentation? Just think back to the old-school, Famicom-era...
Peirce scrutinizes soldier behavior in Stop-Loss
By James Kraft / February 29, 2008
[img id=”80380″ align=”alignleft”] Stop-Loss, U of C alumna Kimberly Peirce’s first feature film since her gripping, painful Boys Don’t Cry in 1999, previewed at a special screening at Doc Films Wednesday. The Maroon was privileged to speak with Peirce about the film, which opens in theaters on March 28. The film centers on the compulsory “stop-loss” re-enlistment of Brandon King (Ryan Phillipe) and the inner demons of the squad he commanded in Iraq, including his old chums Tommy Burgess (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) and Steve Shriver (Channing Tatum). Torn between his sense of injustice and his loyalty to his friends, King agonizes...
UC Dancers gracefully meld styles
By MaryBeth Gronek / February 29, 2008
Why not watch 25 graceful dancers actually leap this leap year? This weekend, come watch the UC Dancers perform their annual performance, The Edge. Although this performance has an eclectic mix of dance styles, they all seem to fall under the jumbo-size umbrella of modern dance. “The choreography in each piece is extremely different than the others,” said executive director Wendy Gonzalez. “All are modern dance, but are definitely very different.” Gonzalez is one of eight choreographers of this performance. She brings 15 years of tap, jazz, and modern-dance experience to UC Dancers. Her interactions with her dancers before the...
Kilimnik’s approach to art reveals cruelty of kitsch
By Sierra Sterling / February 29, 2008
[img id=”80378″ align=”alignleft”] Karen Kilimnik’s work is hard to enjoy. Or, it is too easy to enjoy. This paradox is born of one of the central elements of Kilimnik’s work: kitsch. “I like it, but I hate all the reasons I like it. The reasons that I like it make a fool of me. All of this work is just like a big fuck-you to the audience,” said Sylvia Weintraub, a first-year student at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, as she walked through the exhibit. The reasons Weintraub refers to—the work’s aesthetic appeal, its saccharine quality, and...
The Gadabout—February 29, 2008
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / February 29, 2008
Even from the outside, Nookies Tree, a diner that shares its heritage with Nookies in Old Town and Nookies Too in Lincoln Park, has a relaxed nature that stands in sharp contrast to the flashy sequins, boas, and neon typical of other Boystown businesses. The green-and-white street sign only displays three utensils and “Breakfast Lunch Dinner.” Inside, calm green-shaded lights shine over plain white tables; a few plants and a colorful mural along one wall are the only decorations to accent the silver coffee counter. The servers, keeping with the atmosphere, encourage you to feel just as pleasant as they...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—February 29, 2008
By Ben Rossi / February 29, 2008
Friday / February 29 The award-winning chamber ensemble Alban Berg Quartet gives its last Mandel Hall concert as part of its farewell tour. Crowning the elegiac program, which includes Haydn’s The Last Seven Words of Christ and Schubert’s “String Quartet in G Major,” will be Berg’s own tragic Lyric Suite. It should be a moving evening. (Mandel Hall, 7:30 p.m., $5) The Museum of Contemporary Art presents an intriguing theatrical concert composed by avant-garde multi-instrumentalist Carla Kihlstedt. Necessary Monsters brings characters inspired by Jorge Luis Borges’s The Book of Imaginary Beings to life through envelope-pushing music, extravagant costumes, and other...
UT strikes gold with Orton’s Loot
By Ben Rossi / February 26, 2008
[img id=”80357″ align=”alignleft”] It appears that the University of Chicago is quietly staging a minor Joe Orton renaissance. With Court Theatre’s production of Orton’s 1966 What the Butler Saw winning rave reviews last quarter and now a revival of his 1965 black comedy Loot premiering at the Reynold’s Club Third Floor Theatre tomorrow, it looks like Orton fever has hit campus. Not that Joe Orton’s impious sensibility ever really went out of fashion. The reigning provocateur of the London scene until his notorious murder in 1967, Orton tore down the barriers, and to some extent set the agenda, for such...
Tudor celebration revels in character, not candy
By Jessica Hester / February 26, 2008
[img id=”80355″ align=”alignleft”] Rarely does a ballet depicting both funeral rites and can-can dancers of the raucous Parisian underworld meld the two so harmoniously in a single program. Even rarer is a dancer’s ability to transform from a grieving mother in mourning clothes to a feisty, garter-and-bustier–wearing laundress in the span of an intermission. The Joffrey Ballet’s Antony Tudor Centennial, a repertory program featuring Lilac Garden, Dark Elegies, and Offenbach in the Underworld, illustrates both the breadth of Tudor’s unique genius and the dancers’ considerable artistic gifts. Lauded as the “king of psychological dance-drama,” the British-born Antony Tudor is regarded...
Mafia wins battle of new soap comedies
By Evelyn Wiese / February 25, 2008
[img id=”80353″ align=”alignleft”] “You’re chasing something you made ten years ago.” When fashion designer Victory Ford hears these words on NBC’s new drama Lipstick Jungle, she instantly realizes her mistake. Victory, whose latest creations have been panned by the fashion cognoscenti and the press, thinks she’ll find her mojo by reclaiming a hat she designed at the height of her talent. But with this snippet of wisdom from her friend Nico, Victory recognizes that it’s time to create something new. If only Candace Bushnell had a friend like Nico to caution her against grasping for past triumphs. Ten years ago,...
The Weary Epicurean—February 26, 2008
By James Kraft / February 25, 2008
I have always appreciated a good coffee shop. The best of them combine a relaxed, comfortable atmosphere, high-quality barista work, and good food into a synergistic whole—an enterprise that can both cheer and perk you up simultaneously. I don’t think I could have made it through high school without my local café. By far the best in Hyde Park, particularly when judged purely on the basis of coffee quality, has to be Istria Café, located at East 57th Street and South Lake Park Avenue underneath the Metra tracks. Intelligentsia-brand coffee, nearly always roasted less than a week before used, and...
Clothes-Minded—February 26, 2008
By Allison Cassing / February 25, 2008
Betsey Johnson’s fall 2008 collection started out with a fitted ensemble accessorized with a black beret and scarf that made me want to channel the beatnik look ASAP. With skinny black jeans, a turtleneck, and a beret, I was feeling pretty groovy and only wished I could find some bongo players to provide the soundtrack. Embracing the culture of the current fashions, I ventured to the coffeehouse/shop. There’s a drink option for everyone nowadays. You can find the no-sugar, no-caffeine, no-fun lattés in just about any coffee serving establishment. A quick once-over and you can often peg the person to...
There will be Oscars: No Country for Old Men should sweep three major categories
By William Glick / February 22, 2008
[img id=”80343″ align=”alignleft”] I’ve been predicting the Oscars every year since The Return of the King swept the awards in 2004. For me, it is not just a ceremony but the pinnacle of a season that reminds the public about the very best in cinema. It is not only the high-fashion, mass-celebrity congregation that make the Oscars TV’s second most watched event (the Super Bowl being number one), but also the 80-year folklore that the Oscars offer: a plethora of famous wins, infamous losses, and many memorable television moments. The following are my predictions and thoughts on the potential Oscar...
UChi-Con will open eyes to anime’s appeal
By Lisbeth Redfield / February 22, 2008
There is a prevailing impression that books with pictures are, well, frivolous, but it is an impression a number of Chicago students are trying to correct. The University’s Japanese Animation Society (JAS) is a long-standing RSO that screens series and movies on Wednesday nights for campus anime lovers. They also put on bigger outreach events every quarter, the largest of which is their annual anime convention, affectionately known as UChi-Con. With over 300 attendees last year, UChi-Con is a popular event which is still growing. This year, the convention will feature not only U of C students, but also members...
St. Vincent sings praises of Cub scouts, post-punk
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 22, 2008
[img id=”80341″ align=”alignleft”] Singer-songwriter is a pretty damning term. For many, it conjures the image of bedroom strummers believing their heart-on-sleeve delivery will compensate for lacking lyrics and chops. But every once in a while someone like St. Vincent’s Annie Clark comes along and breaks the mold. Her vocal and instrumental powers crystallize into whimsical songs that lend themselves to videos featuring telekinetic Cub Scouts. Supriya Sinhababu: I really liked your video for “Jesus Saves, I Spend.” Did you contribute to the concept at all? Annie Clark: My contribution to the concept was inviting my little brother, who is actually...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—February 22, 2008
By Ben Rossi / February 22, 2008
In honor of the 80th annual Academy Awards on Sunday, this week’s STD features every movie—save the new ones that everyone knows about—that you could possibly want to see in the next six days. Friday / February 22 Tonight the Music Box screens Casablanca, which really needs no description if you are a member of the human race. (3733 North Southport Avenue, 9:45 p.m., $9.25) Landmark Century Cinema offers the rare opportunity to see all five 2007 Oscar nominees for Best Animated Short. Highlights include an animated documentary about a teen who snuck into John Lennon’s hotel room to do...
Jumper a hop, skip away from disaster
By Zack Hill / February 19, 2008
[img id=”80315″ align=”alignleft”] For one fleeting scene, Jumper reaches glory. Near the end of the new film from Doug Liman, director of Mr. & Mrs. Smith, a knife-wielding Samuel L. Jackson corners Hayden Christensen. Suddenly, the entire movie makes sense, and the preceding 60 or so execrable minutes are forgiven. It is clear that this scene is the reason for Jumper’s existence. You picture Jackson requesting—no, demanding—that this movie be made just so he can act in this scene and thereby apologize to moviegoers everywhere for Star Wars: Episode III, which sacrificed all its credibility by suggesting that the schmucky...
Proto-punk legends get dolled up for tour
By Ethan Stanislawski / February 19, 2008
[img id=”80313″ align=”alignleft”] The New York Dolls are one of the few bands to become mainstream rock legends despite an extremely limited time span and a relatively small, cult-like appeal. In spite of their classic eponymous debut and their underappreciated follow-up Too Much Too Soon, the Dolls are more famous for the shockwaves they sent through the music world by matching bastardized Stones-esque blues and shocking subject matter with songs that, as guitarist Sylvain Sylvain put it, were about “trash and having sex with Frankenstein.” They were also the original drag band. Bassist Sami Yaffa of Hanoi Rocks, another drag...
Shakespeare classic cast in new light
By MaryBeth Gronek / February 19, 2008
The love of a chaste woman for an upstanding gentleman is brutally destroyed by jealousy in the Shakespearean classic Othello. The Chicago Shakespeare Theater presents more than just a story of two naïve lovers who happen to be swept up in an unfair world. Instead, this play is a vibrant exploration of a love that could have been, a devastating feat of cunning, and a display of human flaws that unravel all at once, punctuated by wit that only Shakespeare could provide. Othello, played by Derrick Lee Weeden, is the highlight of the show. Weeden has an excellent grasp on...
Dead zombies show spark despite lifeless plot
By Andreas Nahas / February 19, 2008
[img id=”80311″ align=”alignleft”] Diary of the Dead is George A. Romero’s fifth installment in the Dead series he began 39 years ago with Night of the Living Dead. Diary is a return to the series’ roots, not only because it begins the myth anew, but also because of its style. Diary was independently produced by Romero and lacks the production value of other elaborate zombie films. It is the story of a group of students trying to go home after they’ve heard the news of a global epidemic that causes the dead to return to life and attack the living....
The Weary Epicurean—February 19, 2008
By James Kraft / February 19, 2008
If you take the Cicero Avenue exit off I-55 and turn left onto Archer Avenue, there’s an outstanding Polish grocery store and deli called Bobak’s Sausage Company. From the outside, it looks like any other plain old grocery store, but inside, it’s like stepping into suburban Krakow. Seriously, if there are 7-Elevens in Poland, I bet they look like this. I found out about the place initially because I needed a large quantity of kielbasa. This is not the same thing as “Polish sausage.” (By the way, I have no idea why “Polish sausage” is called “Polish sausage.” If anyone...
Clothes-minded—February 19, 2008
By Allison Cassing / February 19, 2008
When John Edwards got his haircut for $400, we all heard about it. But if he let his hair go wild, à la Jack Sparrow, there would be a big hoopla as well. How can we entrust power to someone who can’t even take care of his own follicles? A candidate’s clothes can have the same effect. Though I am not a huge political junkie, I do enjoy the spectacle of the campaigns. I am not completely removed from the system—I did try to vote in the last election (note: you cannot FedEx your absentee ballot—it must be sent via...
Chan Marshall powers through new hits, old classics
By David Nagel / February 12, 2008
Why is it so hard to write a straightforward review of a Cat Power concert? The facts are a woman named Chan Marshall walked out onto a stage and sang a selection of songs from her most recent record. But what did it mean? Some music doesn’t speak for itself; it requires the prism of personality—an extramusical element that Chan has wrestled with since her early years in the New York anti-folk scene. And perhaps this is what has drawn Cat Power steadily towards the sound of vintage soul music, the genre that most inhabits 2006’s The Greatest and her...
 
Monsters, not dinosaurs: folkers hold their own
By Will Gosner / February 12, 2008
“Are you ready to get folked?” So began the lively 10:30-p.m. concert of the Monsters of Folk at the Old Town School of Folk Music. The band is actually just a temporary association of ex-X guitarist Dave Alvin, multi-instrumentalist songwriter Tim O’Brien, and expert guitarist Chris Smither. The two-hour set showcased each musician’s songcraft as well as their interpretive chops on a variety of originals and covers. The Old Town’s 450-seat Maurer Concert Hall is a great venue for just this kind of intimate acoustic performance. The artists sat on a homey Oriental carpet just feet from an appreciative audience...
K Records founder sings for Olympia, Japan, Lumpen
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 12, 2008
[img id=”80297″ align=”alignleft”] In the early ’80s Calvin Johnson blazed a trail through hardcore and hair metal, making way for more lo-fi, gosh darn cute indie rock than the average record collecting cynic could handle. Everyone from Japanese girl bands to Kurt Cobain took cues from Johnson, and after years of performing behind big names like Beat Happening, Dub Narcotic Sound System, and The Halo Benders, he’s pared his act down to a one-man show. Johnson has been known to hold Q&A sessions at his shows, so here are a few things you don’t have to ask if you catch...
Clothes-minded—February 12, 2008
By Allison Cassing / February 12, 2008
There are many things in life I really love. But sometimes the objects of my affection can make life difficult. Case in point: yellow and high heels. Yellow is a cheerful color I am actively attempting to infuse into my everyday. However, in the apparel portion of my existence, the canary hue is proving difficult to embrace. It never seems to look right on me. And while I am definitely looking to invest in some yellow rain boots (and jacket…and hat?), I’ve spent a lot of time trying to figure out how yellow can be worn attractively under a clear...
The Weary Epicurean—February 12, 2008
By James Kraft / February 12, 2008
A friend of mine mentioned Jamie Oliver, of The Naked Chef fame, at dinner the other night, and I was reminded of the whole issue of food television. My personal experience with this medium began with Oliver, whom I worshipped as a middle-schooler. In his show, he’s constantly nipping around London on his scooter, picking up fresh herbs from his suburban friends, and then dry-rubbing them onto various large cuts of meat, and so on. It’s a very homemade-pizza, fish-roasted-in-a-tinfoil-envelope style of cooking, of which I’m not terribly fond anymore. But it’s certainly fun to watch. The tension with all...
McDonagh shoots up the big screen
By Ethan Stanislawski / February 8, 2008
While Martin McDonagh has taken the theater world by storm since the mid ’90s, from the London premiere of The Beauty Queen of Lenane to 2006’s Tony-nominated The Lieutenant of Inishmore (which featured more blood on stage than you thought was possible), McDonagh entered the film world sideways. He won an Oscar in 2006 for his surreal short film Six Shooter. His first feature film, In Bruges, also gets its message across sideways, starting out as a fast-talking action buddy flick before taking on a much deeper meaning. While McDonagh has been compared to Conor MacPherson in theater circles due...
Annual festival unites folks this weekend
By Jingru Yang / February 8, 2008
Though many of us here at the U of C hail from backgrounds with well loved musical traditions, and the Core sees to it that at least some of us are musically literate, traditional music isn’t the kind of thing that appears too often in iTunes libraries or end-of-the-year best lists. And if your familiarity with folk starts with Bob Dylan and ends with Simon & Garfunkel, you might well ask why you should bother slogging through the slush to the annual U of C Folk Festival at Mandel Hall this weekend. Members of the U of C Folklore Society,...
Matta-Clark measures up at the MCA
By Mitch Montoya / February 8, 2008
Strange things happened this past weekend at the Museum of Contemporary Art, even by contemporary art standards. An enormous black-and-white picture of a man with his head in a hole adorned the entrance of the museum; a compacted, but very large, cube of trash conspicuously sat in one of the gallery rooms; and 30-year-old dreadlocks rested in a glass box on the wall. Walking into the museum, I thought I had either entered a really bad thrift store in Belmont, or that this artist needs some help. Of course, after coming out of my delirium and leaving Belmont behind, I...
Arctic tale digs into the explorer’s state of mind
By Ben Rossi / February 8, 2008
For me, stories about great explorers always bring to mind the famous lines of Dante’s Inferno about Ulysses. Exhorting his crew to keep rowing toward the sunrise, he sees a heavenly mountain in the distance. But that’s all he ever sees, because in an instant the sea becomes a storming cauldron and his ship is swallowed whole. It is this mad longing for worldly and transcendent glory that defines the nobility of the explorer. Indeed, A Big Blue Nail, a flawed but fascinating play at Victory Gardens Theater, begins with a reading of Tennyson’s Ulysses and takes as its subject...
Foote production struggles to hit its stride
By Maroon Staff / February 8, 2008
Horton Foote, one of America’s most prolific playwrights, has spent seven decades dramatizing the Depression-era American South. In January, the Goodman Theatre began a four-month tribute to Foote, the Academy Award–winning script writer of To Kill a Mockingbird, featuring the upcoming one-acts Blind Date and The Actor, the full-length The Trip to Bountiful, as well as the currently playing Talking Pictures. Foote’s works encompass a period of American history that allows him to fill his plays with a good deal of sentiment, which is great for the average theatergoer. If you feel that the function of theater is to simply...
The Gadabout—February 8, 2008
By Clay Smith / February 8, 2008
Despite its proximity, South Side food is more the stuff of legend than the stuffing of Saturday night. U of C lore only mandates the occasional, possibly alcohol-induced adventure to the Harold’s on 53rd Street before graduation. Those brave souls who have traveled past the end of the world as marked by B-J report the land between 61st and 75th Streets filled with rib-tip and barbecue artisans. But the most legendary stuff of all lies nearly 50 blocks south, in the sugar coma–inducing headquarters of Old Fashioned Donuts. Docking in at 112th Street and Michigan Avenue, Old Fashioned Donuts—a veritable...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—February 8, 2008
By Ben Rossi / February 8, 2008
These days it’s easy to feel like whoever is controlling the weather has got a bone to pick with the city of Chicago. What did we ever do to him? Whatever it was, it’s obvious that revenge is a dish best served cold with a side of blinding snow. But where nature fails, culture offers a refuge. Friday / February 8 The 48th Annual University of Chicago Folk Festival kicks off tonight with a performance at Mandel Hall. Sponsored by the University of Chicago Folklore Society, the festival features three days of roots music by the nation’s top folk acts...
Adaptations prove worthy as originals
By Cheryl Luce / February 5, 2008
Guy Ben-Ner, Arturo Herera, and Catherine Sullivan sat at the front of an overcrowded room. The three artists were there to discuss their works in the Smart Museum’s new exhibit, Adaptation, which consists of video installations that explore adaptation as a creative practice. Their work finds common ground in the simple idea that all three artists based their material for this exhibit on an existing source, such as a work of literature, art, music, or film. An audience member asked the artists if they had any reservations about using another work as a starting point. Ben-Ner replied bluntly, “I don’t...
Relationship status: update needed
By Evelyn Wiese / February 5, 2008
At last Friday’s “It’s Complicated at U of C,” a workshop on dating and relationships organized by the Student Counseling and Resource Center, I learned that: 1. Guys are pussies. 2. Romantic entanglements at school almost always take the form of either obsessive and codependent pseudo-marriages or random—and usually drunken—hook-ups. 3. It’s very difficult, if not impossible, not to over-analyze the nuances of crushes, relationships, and exes. During the course of the hour-long discussion group, student participants gave their views of romance, comparing the dynamics of dating to marlin-fishing, football, and all-you-can-eat buffets. One should not, however, make the mistake...
Liars ’fess up about punk rock, Pro Tools
By Yusuf Siddiquee / February 5, 2008
Originally part of the dance-punk scene in New York, Australian-born Angus Andrew, Aaron Hemphill, and Julian Gross form the stylistically shifting band Liars. Reinventing their sound with each album, Liars have set the example for dynamic and experimental indie rock, while also transferring their studio aura to live shows. I was able to talk to Hemphill a few days ago about his recording process and the special approach to music videos for their most recent self-titled album: Yusuf Siddiquee: So, what was your moment—how did you start making music? Aaron Hemphill: For a long time I didn’t think about being...
Nameless characters haunt Williams’s lost work
By Claire McNear / February 5, 2008
A minute into The Day on Which a Man Dies, the audience was transfixed: The show begins with a curtain made of paper being torn violently to the floor to reveal a near-naked man painting with exaggerated concentration. It was a dramatic start, to say the least. The production is the latest from David Kaplan, the curator and co-founder of the annual Provincetown Tennessee Williams Festival in Massachusetts. Kaplan, who has directed a number of plays abroad in languages such as Russian and Cantonese, presented the world premiere of this version of The Day in Chicago. Tennessee Williams wrote the...
New Aqua Teen DVD will get on swimmingly with stoners
By Yusuf Siddiquee / February 5, 2008
As it enters season five, many of us may wonder just how Aqua Teen Hunger Force has survived for so long. But despite being deemed a stoned-college-students-only affair, Aqua Teen has some redeeming qualities. Much like South Park, season five of Aqua Teen contains crude, vulgar, and sexual humor presented in a distinct cartoon format that mixes computer effects and real images. The 15-minute episodes are easily digestible and cover a wide range of topics, including global warming, gay rights, and corporate advertising. At the end of the day, most of us derive some kind of pleasure from laughing at...
Clothes-Minded—February 5, 2008
By Allison Cassing / February 5, 2008
Dressing for business can be risky. Looking too informal can be harmful to your office image, and while not everyone is expected to wear suits every day (especially if you’re interning), it is generally not acceptable to wear leggings and a tunic to the office. Whether you’re getting ready for an interview, summer internship, or a real job, it’s important to look put-together. The way you dress tells people about your working style. Looking sloppy never got anyone the corner office, so take some time and think about what you put on—your smarts will do the rest. Spending thousands on...
The Weary Epicurean—February 5, 2008
By James Kraft / February 5, 2008
I’ve noticed a minor craze among Midwestern college students for elaborate juicing machines. These are truly wonderful contraptions that can transform the FDA’s prerogative that we get six servings of fruit and vegetables a day (or whatever it is) from a tedious chore to a given, practically overnight. As one friend of mine put it, “I never knew cucumbers were so delicious before!” One can only hope that he will now discover how delicious they are in their un-macerated form. The best bang for your buck is the Breville Juice Fountain Plus, available at Macy’s for $150 (go in on...
Emotion trumps trendiness in Walker’s repertoire
By Italia Patti / February 1, 2008
Large, mysterious, emotive paintings will be on display at the Hyde Park Art Center in the new exhibit Through a Glass Darkly, a mid-career retrospective of Chuck Walker’s work. The show focuses on his figure paintings, but also includes some still-life paintings and many drawings. Curator Margaret Hawkins oriented the retrospective around the themes that pervaded the many styles of Walker’s work. She described the main unifying theme as physical concealment, “a dislocation between body and spirit” and a “yearning for something outside of the physical realm.” Urban subject matter and cityscapes creep into the show as well, working almost...
If God doesn’t Save the Fan from ESPN, Will Leitch will
By Emerald Gao / February 1, 2008
Last summer I became a raging insomniac. Because the Food Network goes off the air around dawn, I was stuck oscillating between ESPN and ESPN2 for a few terrifying hours, watching either two men talk on the radio or yet another edition of Sportscenter. Unfortunately, the repetition wasn’t enough to cure me, but maybe I should have done what Will Leitch did—last June, the creator and editor of “Deadspin” (deadspin.com) spent 24 hours watching nothing but the ESPN family of networks, hoping to purge himself of the Worldwide Leader in Sports, or, at the very least, “learn something.” What Leitch...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—February 1, 2008
By Ben Rossi / February 1, 2008
Friday / February 1 Ingmar Bergman’s classic Persona, a deceptively simple film about a nurse who comes to know her patient intimately, screens at the Gene Siskel Film Center tonight. Persona has been called Bergman’s best by some critics. The film is part of the Center’s The Great Transitions: World Cinema in the ’60s series. (164 North State Street, 6 p.m., $7 for students) Her first book threw Pakistan’s government into damage-control mode (they banned it). Ayesha Siddiqa has touched a nerve both in Pakistan and in some quarters here in the States with her incisive analysis of Pakistan’s extralegal...
An encounter with Girl Talk involves more than cookie dough, pigtails, and gossip
By Maroon Staff / February 1, 2008
Gregg Gillis may not be a household name, but many of us have heard of his alter ego Girl Talk. Drawing attention from record labels, distributors, and the Senate, Gillis has raised eyebrows for a number of reasons. One of those reasons was apparent last Saturday at the Metro. Hosting two shows in one night, Gillis had the crowd convulsing on and off stage the entire night. Combining samples from his album Night Ripper with more recent ones, he set the scene for an electrifying and admittedly sweaty night of dancing. I had the opportunity to speak with him a...
The Weary Epicurean—January 29, 2008
By James Kraft / January 29, 2008
Michael Pollan would be the last person I’d expect to write a book called In Defense of Food. Up until now, what I’ve read by him has been mostly in what you might call a hostile vein. His last big hit, the stirringly polemical The Omnivore’s Dilemma, attacks so many American calorie sources that you’re left wondering, by the tale’s end, whether it would be ethical to eat at all. From explaining that your typical McDonald’s meal is basically 100 percent corn, to exposing Whole Foods as basically a typical mega-supermarket, he argues fairly persuasively that, unless you’re lucky enough...
Requiem for Heath: a promising career cut short
By Matt Zakosek / January 29, 2008
Brokeback Mountain premiered in Chicago on December 12, 2005, at Landmark’s Century Centre Cinema. Of course, opening days are usually crowded, and Brokeback Mountain was no different—but at one o’clock in the afternoon? By the start of the show, the theater was packed to the rafters, and the excitement in the air was palpable. We, the audience, were dying to see a mainstream, big-budget love story where the main characters just happened to be gay. With any luck, we figured Brokeback Mountain might be our Gone with the Wind—hell, Brokeback Mountain could be our Romeo and Juliet. It would be...
Hypocrites take audience on a stroll through Strindberg’s world
By Lisbeth Redfield / January 29, 2008
Girl gets drunk, girl hits on unsuitable boy, things happen, girl wakes up the next morning hideously embarrassed. You know this plot line; it’s been getting a lot of mileage this year, but almost always as a comedy. It is, arguably, more effective as a tragedy, as Chicago theater company The Hypocrites proves in its production of August Strindberg’s Miss Julie. The play is a war of sexual attrition, spinning around the aristocratic Lady Julie, her father’s valet Jean, and a lot of alcohol. In 90 spare, claustrophobic minutes, the audience is subjected to a double portrait of two people...
Clothes-Minded—January 29, 2008
By Maroon Staff / January 29, 2008
Layering is a chore of the social. When it’s very cold out, as it has been recently, I find it would be much easier to camp out in the warmth of my apartment than to attempt to find an outfit that fits both my style and my bundling needs. However, as I have yet to adopt a hermit’s lifestyle, every morning I sift through my wardrobe in search of a weather-worthy ensemble. The trouble lies in the fact that I am a complete cold-weather wuss. I am a creature of heat (and lover of summer attire), always have been. I...
The Weary Epicurean—January 29, 2008
By James Kraft / January 29, 2008
Michael Pollan would be the last person I’d expect to write a book called In Defense of Food. Up until now, what I’ve read by him has been mostly in what you might call a hostile vein. His last big hit, the stirringly polemical The Omnivore’s Dilemma, attacks so many American calorie sources that you’re left wondering, by the tale’s end, whether it would be ethical to eat at all. From explaining that your typical McDonald’s meal is basically 100 percent corn, to exposing Whole Foods as basically a typical mega-supermarket, he argues fairly persuasively that, unless you’re lucky enough...
This ain’t your grandmother’s Titus
By Elizabeth Goetz / January 25, 2008
Director Charles Newell’s version of William Shakespeare’s Titus Andronicus, currently playing at the Court Theatre, is on the stranger side. Like the Court’s production of Seneca’s Thyestes earlier this season, tropes are added to modernize the play that do little to improve the resulting production. There is a multi-tiered set, sharp in its imposing geometry, standing behind the production, making the production look as if it belongs to no particular historical moment—a harsh, unpleasant time. The play opens with what sounds like soft metal from the ’80s playing as military men traipse back and forth. The sensory experience must be...
Smith-edited work shows good character
By Cheryl Luce / January 25, 2008
The Book of Other People, Penguin’s new compilation of short stories edited by Zadie Smith, features new works by 23 of today’s most notable fiction writers, including Jonathan Lethem, Edwidge Danticat, Jonathan Safran Foer, Miranda July, Nick Hornby, Dave Eggers, and Smith herself. The table of contents looks like a working guest list for a McSweeney’s surprise party, thrown by the staff of the Guardian on the Guggenheim’s tab. However, the collection is more than a group-hug celebration of how wonderful it is to be in the literary elite. All proceeds from the book’s sales go to a nonprofit organization...
Dresses—and shoes!—fit this Cinderella story
By Nathalie Gorman / January 25, 2008
A new romantic comedy, 27 Dresses, starring Katherine Heigl (Grey’s Anatomy, Knocked Up), is a good old-fashioned Cinderella story. There’s a heroine who’s always getting other people ready for a wedding, a sister who’s too demanding, a Prince Charming—played in this case by the adorable James Marsden—and a happy ending. But this is a modern Cinderella story, and it’s all the more satisfying because it’s about a woman who learns to make her own way. Heigl plays Jane, a character who embodies the adage “always a bridesmaid and never a bride.” Jane spends all her time helping her friends get...
Luck of the Irish shines through in play’s best moments
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 25, 2008
For a city with such a strong Irish heritage and thriving theater scene, Chicago has had a frustrating relationship with contemporary Irish playwrights. While the works of Conor MacPherson and Martin McDonagh have taken the New York and London stages by storm for a over a decade now, Chicago has had to deal with disappointing productions like last year’s Steppenwolf version of The Pillowman. Most recognition of the Irish Invasion has been buried in sporadic off-Loop productions (though some, such as Uma Production’s recent version of Faith Healer, have been outstanding). Since the Goodman’s artistic director directed the well received...
Jazz club moonlights as slam poetry haven
By Pete Russell / January 25, 2008
Every Sunday night for the past 21 years, poets have gathered at Chicago’s most venerable jazz club to celebrate a different sort of sound: the spoken word. On any given night at uptown’s Green Mill, there’s a six out of seven chance that you will hear some awesome live jazz. If you happen to go on Sunday, you will see the Uptown Poetry Slam, hosted by Marc Smith. “So what?” you ask, along with the rest of the crowd when he introduces himself. He will tell you: As the founder of the poetry slam movement, slamming was his idea. In...
The Weary Epicurean—January 25, 2008
By James Kraft / January 25, 2008
Madison. Sweet home of beef, bread, and beer. Lovely wheels of sharp yellow cheddar cheese, bratwursts boiled in water and vinegar, pint glasses of milk at every meal. Having visited, I think I finally understand the meaning of the word “heartland.” It’s the place that stops your heart—by hook or by crook. As you drive north from Chicago, the first town you hit on the way to Mad Town is a charming little meth den known as Beloit, whose saving grace is a marvelous roadside establishment known as the Beefaroo. I have not had a better fast-food cheeseburger since the...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—January 25, 2008
By Ben Rossi / January 25, 2008
Friday / January 25 It sounds like a creative writing major’s arch-attempt at magic realism: A cranky and utterly obscure recluse, living in a one-room garret on Chicago’s North Side, creates out of the bare materials of an impoverished life a sprawling epic of other worlds and ethereal visions. It is difficult to say which is the more marvelous, Henry Darger’s massive work or the fact of his creating it. In any case, the Smart Museum’s recently opened exhibition of some panels from In the Realms of the Unreal, as well as art supplies and pictures of Darger’s apartment, is...
Shortcut—Times New Viking’s Rip It Off
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 25, 2008
By the end of 2008, Times New Viking will either start a revolution or be laughed off as a novelty band. Which result we choose will predict a lot about our post-Bush American music scene. TNV makes no secret of their desire to have a Sex Pistols–like effect on indie rock, from stage names like “harmish kilgour” and “brix e. smith” to naming their Matador debut Rip It Off. But they’re not posturing. With its lower-than-lo-fi production value, loud-as-all-hell abandon, and ability to let melodies squeak through the noise, Rip It Off practically sets off a Doomsday device on the...
Gasteronomy—January 25, 2008
By Gabe Gaster / January 25, 2008
Double Li 228 West Cermak Road $10–$20, BYOB Well recognized by The Reader, gourmand-frequented lthforum.com, and any Chicago foodie you should be listening to, Double Li is making waves in Chinatown. It used to be that every time I’d go to Chinatown with U of C people, we’d go to Lao Sze Chuan: They offered up that spicy food that most places in Chinatown had watered down for the American palate. But since Double Li opened, I see no reason to go anywhere else for that kind of thing. The menu has two sides: In English, you’ll find the standard...
UBallet battles winter blues with jazzed-up classic
By Jessica Hester / January 18, 2008
Today, the dancers of the University Ballet of Chicago are dressed for the blustery weather, bundled up in wide-knit sweaters, leg warmers, and sweatpants. As temperatures continue to plummet this weekend, they’ll strip down to tutus, tights, and elf hats, bringing the winter wonderland indoors. This weekend, UBallet will present a witty and whimsical winter performance, featuring two short ballets: Sur la Glace and Duke Ellington’s Nutcracker Suite. Stylistically, the two works are very different, but UBallet artistic director Robyn Gee affirmed that “the two halves are united by a festive theme.” Third-year dancer Rachel Knight agreed: “This performance has...
Literate and lovely, Lyric Opera learns how to love the bomb
By Kimberly Sutton / January 18, 2008
For one of the last times, the Lyric Opera of Chicago took the stage Tuesday night to perform Doctor Atomic, a recent opera by composer John Adams and long-time collaborator and librettist Peter Sellars. The action takes place on the day of the first test of the atomic bomb, when J. Robert Oppenheimer, his wife Kitty, and his team of scientists grapple with the meaning of what they are doing. Sellars, Adams, and choreographer Lucinda Childs examine the meaning of the age they have chosen with techniques specific to their media. The bare, modern stage combined the industrial with the...
The Gadabout—January 18, 2008
By Clay Smith / January 18, 2008
Take a subtle hint from the Polish Museum of America, the Taste of Polonia Festival during Labor Day weekend, or the Polish Constitution Day Parade on May 3: Chicago knows a thing or two when it comes to culture beyond the Maxwell Street sausage. Given that our fair city houses the largest population of Poles outside of Poland, Podhalanka’s existence isn’t surprising—but it certainly is satisfying. Billed as one of Chicago’s “great neighborhood restaurants,” Podhalanka is like the home of your quirky, genuinely Polish, next-door grandmother: knickknacks crammed on the soda-stacked bar, a collection of Polish greeting cards in a...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—January 18, 2008
By Ben Rossi / January 18, 2008
Friday / January 18 Chicago Critical Mass is an anarchic, free-form non-organization dedicated to bike-riding Michigan Avenue in semi-protest of what it calls “car culture” on its website, and apparently, it has opened up a chapter in Hyde Park. Beginning at Harper Court, this ragtag band of grassroots activists, bike enthusiasts, and curious tag-alongs will tour the South Side Friday night. (5211 South Harper Avenue, 5:30 p.m., free) Katerina Šedá, a young Czech artist who has made a name for herself with her sociology-themed pieces, treats art as a communal act of identity-building and affirmation. For her latest exhibition at...
View from the Bridge obscured by movie misstep
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 15, 2008
Introducing video into theater is always a dangerous affair. The potential benefits are easily outweighed by all the possible ways for it to go wrong. If it doesn’t work, you’ll lose the audience no matter how strong the rest of the play is. A textbook example of this dilemma can be found in Grey Zelda’s production of Arthur Miller’s A View from the Bridge. While the production’s staging and acting are top-notch, the maddeningly problematic video sequences manage to leave the production unsatisfying despite some Jeff-worthy performances. A View from the Bridge is an oft-forgotten gem from Arthur Miller, and...
Novel rendition of James ghost story serves up classic scares
By Ben Rossi / January 15, 2008
What makes The Turn of the Screw so fascinating? It has proved to be the most enduring and well known of Henry James’s works; its numerous adaptations to both stage and screen could form their own literary sub-genre. Why, of all James’s complex and engrossing visions, is this seemingly straightforward ghost story still the most popular? As anyone who has read The Turn of the Screw can attest, the novel is not actually as simple as it seems. In fact, there is a real question as to whether the ghosts exist at all, outside of the main character’s fevered, romantic...
Clothes-Minded—January 15, 2008
By Allison Cassing / January 15, 2008
After shopping for gifts and indulging in the post-holiday sales, it’s no surprise that your pocketbook is noticeably lighter. Unfortunately, for many of us, that shopping bug doesn’t disappear after New Year’s Eve. Lucky for the style enthusiasts, many designers have teamed up with Target to create affordable lines while still delivering their signature looks. Wandering the aisles of Target with Drano and Ritz in hand, not everyone recognizes the rotation of designer names that are becoming an integral part of the Target Corporation, but the big names are at the top of the fashion game, so it’s no surprise...
The Weary Epicurean—January 15, 2008
By James Kraft / January 15, 2008
Bar food is almost by definition underwhelming. After all, why would anyone bother to lavish any creativity on empty calories, consumed primarily in order to prolong the feasible length of a drinking binge? Thus, apart from the occasional git-’er-done mini-burger, in American bars one mostly encounters only pre-packaged, salted foods served in communal bowls, passed around among the patrons like a sort of crappy Dionysian eucharist. This is a crying shame for a variety of reasons. For one thing, from a daily calorie-budget perspective, those puny little White Castle–type burgers ain’t cheap. A typical serving of two or three burgers...
Top Five Movies of 2007—Ethan Stanislawski
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 11, 2008
No Country for Old Men Never before have the Coen brothers been this savage, this heart-wrenching, or this good. If Blood Simple or Fargo didn’t harden your soul, watch Javier Bardem pack more evil into one character than the Coens have ever put into an entire film. Bardem’s Anton Chigurth joins Hannibal Lecter and Nurse Ratched among film’s all-time greatest villains. The key to the film, however, is Tommy Lee Jones, the voice of reason lacking in previous Coen brothers films, who elevates No Country to magnum opus status. The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters This little documentary-that-could...
Top Five Movies of 2007—Elizabeth Grobel
By Elizabeth Grobel / January 11, 2008
Control Control is Anton Corbijn’s feature-film debut about the life and music of Joy Division front man Ian Curtis. With a delicate hand, Corbijn tells the story of one of post-punk’s darkest icons. His work avoids the hyper-sentimentality and tortured artist clichés so often present in biopics. No pretension or cheap shots here. The actors performed all the Joy Division music in the movie live, giving the band scenes extra punch. I won’t mislead you: you WILL weep. Like a baby. An absolute must-see. Ratatouille A rat! Who wants to cook! In Paris! This is one of the most darling...
Top Five Movies of 2007—Matt Zakosek
By Matt Zakosek / January 11, 2008
Starrbooty Director Mike Ruiz’s showcase of legendary drag performer RuPaul recalls the best of John Waters, David Lynch, or even Andy Warhol. Its political incorrectness stems not from a juvenile desire to shock, but from an exploration of race, gender, sexuality, and the ways we perceive them. As Special Agent Starrbooty, RuPaul catwalks away with the most purely enjoyable film of 2007. Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street This movie is a nasty delight, with Johnny Depp redeeming his atrocious work as Willy Wonka. But the movie belongs to the younger members of the cast: Jamie Campbell Bower...
Top Five Movies of 2007—Elizabeth Goetz
By Elizabeth Goetz / January 11, 2008
Death at a Funeral This Frank Oz–directed masterpiece proves that all the best parties seem to involve dead bodies and ensemble casts. Picture a mature, 21st-century vaudeville with a 90-minute plot, midgets, naked dudes hallucinating from rooftops, and all. 2 Days in Paris This little piece of narcissism was directed by, written by, and starred in by Julie Delpy, evoking neuroses that Woody Allen seems to have left behind. While its less romantic and somewhat meaner characters might be disappointing to fans of Delpy’s previous conversation pieces, Before Sunrise and Before Sunset, seeing her in the wider context of her...
Top Five Albums of 2007—Emale Gray
By Emale Gray / January 11, 2008
Daddy Yankee, El Cartel: The Big Boss In all of Billboard history, no artist has made gringos all over the United States feel the impacto of reggaetón music like Daddy Yankee. What stands out about El Cartel: The Big Boss is the lack of that patented reggaetón beat and the inclusion of the pop-hop flavor of Black Eyed Peas’ will.i.am, classic salsa and merengue ritmos, and hit-maker Fergie, making this album not only a step forward from the exasperatingly monotonous song “Gasolina,” but also a much-needed step in the evolution for reggaetón music. Lupe Fiasco, Lupe Fiasco’s The Cool Speeding...
Top Five Albums of 2007—Yusuf Siddiquee
By Yusuf Siddiquee / January 11, 2008
LCD Soundsystem, Sound of Silver With songs running an average of eight minutes and a singing style that closely resembles talking, James Murphy is unconventional in just a few ways. But none of that detracts from the Sound of Silver, a fluid, danceable masterpiece. Murphy inserts witty social commentary about the implications of being North American, while discussing the common emptiness of a broken relationship and tired cycles of friendship. Ending with a bittersweet ballad to his hometown, Sound of Silver establishes itself as a poignant and nearly perfect piece of digital production. With the exception of the last number,...
Top Five Albums of 2007—Evelyn Wiese
By Evelyn Wiese / January 11, 2008
Amy Winehouse, Back to Black In a year coined by The New York Times as the year of the celebrity train wreck, Amy Winehouse epitomized how quickly the life of a rising young star can spiral out of control in the unrelenting flashbulbs of the paparazzi. But her album Back to Black, released to a U.S. audience in March of 2007, made Amy’s apparent marital problems and descent into drug addiction far more compelling than the travails of her pop and celebutante peers. With a rasping voice husky enough to ooze smoke over the airwaves, Winehouse combined jazz, R&B, and...
Top Five Music Videos of 2007—Supriya Sinhababu
By Supriya Sinhababu / January 11, 2008
Spoon, “Don’t You Evah” Before 2007, the dancing, snowman-shaped robot known as Keepon was just another one of YouTube’s best-kept secrets. “Don’t You Evah” gives the little guy his four minutes and five seconds of fame, following him through all-robot dance parties and encounters with Japanese people. If you’re still searching for all the entertainment value that didn’t come with your last Spoon album, look no further. Modest Mouse, “Dashboard” Videos that tell stories are second only to songs that do the same. “Dashboard” follows a few salty old sea captains trying to outdo each other with tales of their...
New Cusack film asks, where has Grace gone?
By Elizabeth Goetz / December 7, 2007
Where has Gregory Peck gone? Yeah, smartass, I know he’s dead, too, but his type seems to have been forgotten, at least by screenwriter and first-time director James C. Strouse, whose film Grace Is Gone is meant to be a moving, mostly nonpartisan piece on the lives of people connected to the Iraq war. The film follows John Cusack as Stanley Philips, a man who has just learned that his wife, conveniently named Grace, has died while serving in Iraq and needs to find a way to break it to his daughters. (OK, OK, so we were talking To Kill...
Against Me! rides New Wave toward success
By Jingru Yang / November 27, 2007
Last Wednesday evening, when most people were heading out of town for Thanksgiving, I was standing in line at the House of Blues, waiting to get patted down by a bouncer so that I could gain admittance through the baffling series of velvet ropes that cordoned off the lobby of the building. I had picked up this assignment not because of any particular appreciation for punk music, but rather out of a vague sense of kinship with the band: Against Me! are from Gainesville, Florida, and so am I, and I wondered how hard the assignment could be. Yet when...
Juno finds the fun in teen pregnancy
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 27, 2007
Very few films came out of the Toronto International Film Festival with quite as much hype as Juno. A quirky indie comedy directed by Jason Reitman (Thank You For Smoking), the film stars Ellen Page (Hard Candy, X3) as the title character, a free-spirited teenager whose life takes a new direction after she’s knocked up by her best friend/boyfriend Paulie (Michael Cera). While her father (J.K. Simmons) and stepmom (Allison Janney) are surprisingly understanding, she decides to give the baby to Mark and Vanessa Loring (Jason Bateman and Jennifer Garner), a wealthy, attractive young couple looking to adopt. In the...
Critic discusses art, history, and the MCA
By Mitch Montoya / November 27, 2007
The 1960s were a time of powerful social movements, innovative rock ’n’ roll, experimental, “mind-expanding” drugs, and yes, sex. Obviously I did not live in the 1960s, but according to the head art critic of The New Yorker, Peter Schjeldahl, the ’60s was a decade when, if you were having a good time, you wouldn’t remember it at all. At his recent talk at the Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA), Schjeldahl gave his own account of the ’60s, the contemporary art movement, and why art is simply useless. “When the Chicago MCA opened in 1975, New York was exhausted,” Schjeldahl...
Clothes-minded—November 27, 2007
By Allison Cassing / November 27, 2007
It is better to give than receive. Or so we’re often told. Especially around the holidays, this do-gooder mantra is chanted often. In ways of style advice, whether ’tis better to give or receive really depends on who you are. If you are eternally chic, it would be a sin not to give. However, if you flail among the passé trends, it is better to wait your turn in the makeover thread line. At Harper’s Bazaar, Diana Vreeland made her “Why Don’t You…” column famous by posing novel ways for the Bazaar reader to dress and live. We’ve arrived in...
The Weary Epicurean—November 27, 2007
By James Kraft / November 27, 2007
As you perhaps might have guessed, Thanksgiving is one of my favorite days of the year. It is the one general family get-together not marred by some awful stress—like the presents at Christmas/Hanukkah/Kwanzaa, attendance at Church/Temple/Mosque on Easter/Passover/Ridván, and in-laws at weddings. Thanksgiving gets down to what people actually enjoy in these holidays: coming together to be with family and enjoy a good meal. So in the spirit of Thanksgiving, today’s column will cut the crap of my disapproving of this or approving of that. The following are merely my favorite Thanksgiving memories, as they come to mind in fond...
Robbers hightail it from High Street, hit the open road
By Jingru Yang / November 27, 2007
The venue at Schubas Tavern is tucked into a narrow room behind the bar, where most of the light comes from the big Bud Light and Schubas logos projected onto one of the longer walls. The overall effect is cramped, which may actually be preferable for the less well known bands that come through town. It was a Sunday night, so business outside was moderate, but almost 40 people showed up to hear Robbers On High Street and their touring companions, Great Northern. Great Northern set the floorboards humming from the beginning of their act, an hour of mid-tempo rock...
Nerd comedian finds niche with U of C audience
By Justin Sink / November 20, 2007
[img id=”80279″ align=”alignleft”] One couldn’t quite shake a sense of looming disaster Friday night at Mandel Hall—the planned entertainment, folk/rock/sea shanty hybrid The Decemberists, had cancelled at the last minute, and the Major Activities Board (MAB) had to scramble to bring in Daily Show and Flight of the Conchords comedian Demetri Martin. The pre-show crowd was a classic U of C amalgamation of awkward-looking first-years (most of whom seemed to have purchased tickets not because they had any idea who Martin was, but solely because the MAB show was something that had been featured prominently in their O-Week campus life...
No love lost for Lost Love
By Lisbeth Redfield / November 20, 2007
Hypatia Theatre’s production of Lost Love begins with a storm in a tiny, dark theater. Storms are notoriously difficult to portray in a theater—any theater. The director faces the basic problem of squashing a very large and very vivid natural disaster into a little black box. A further point against him: The audience already knows it’s not real. But sometimes those storms work. Sometimes the screaming and crashing on the sound system sounds real enough to prod your imagination. Sometimes, when you get a really good play and production team, it works, and you face something apocalyptic in the dark....
Director dreams up fairy-tale thriller
By Elizabeth Grobel / November 20, 2007
El Orfanato (The Orphanage) is the feature film debut of director Juan Antonio Bayona and writer Sergio Sanchez. The duo have pushed the thriller movie format beyond its classical bounds with their tale of Laura, a mother coming to terms with the disappearance of her son, Simon. I had the privilege of sitting down with Bayona and Sanchez to talk about the film and its reception, as well as upcoming projects. Elizabeth Grobel: How do you feel now that the film’s been premiered? Sergio Sanchez: We’re still in awe of the reaction the film is getting. With audiences, the film...
The Note cards hard, but Hopewell rocks harder
By Evelyn Wiese / November 20, 2007
When I was younger and dumber, I imagined that it would be pretty cool to be asked to hang out with a band on their tour bus. Sneaking into the ubiquitous over-18 venues where our favorite angst-ridden rockers headlined, my friends and I made no secret of wishing to get noticed by the band. Of course, we never were. Fast forward to last Saturday. For the first time ever, I was invited to hang out on a band’s ride. Granted, it wasn’t a tour bus but a 1993 GMC Safari van. And my friend and I weren’t quite invited to...
The Weary Epicurean—November 20, 2007
By James Kraft / November 20, 2007
At one point or another, I have heard every sort of establishment, from the local gyro shop to true haute cuisine, described as serving “gourmet comfort food” (GCF). It is, in my opinion, one of the laziest expressions in use within that already decadently languorous literary form: the restaurant review. What nondescript, ubiquitous flavor could possibly be described by this near-meaningless phrase? What technique, beyond the bare application of heat to formerly living matter, could possibly be in use at every level of cuisine, in every country in the world? Generally, nowadays, all the reviewer really means when he uses...
Poet and musician blend talents to bring listeners back to nature
By Cheryl Luce / November 20, 2007
For Americans, the errand into the wilderness plays a defining role in our history and identity. For our Puritan fathers, the founders of our literary tradition, it embodies theological trial and spiritual renewal. The 2007 Pearl Anderson Sherry Memorial Visiting Poet Susan Howe, however, prefers to venture into a different kind of wilderness. Her wilderness is history, and her errand is to summon its unsettled and absent voices. The errand is a central theme in Howe’s newest collection of poetry, Souls of the Labadie Tract, from which she read on Thursday at Bond Chapel in a collaborative performance with musician...
Clothes-minded—November 20, 2007
By Allison Cassing / November 20, 2007
More often than not, by the time Thanksgiving rolls around, the weather has snapped. It’s cold and blustery, snow is on the ground or on its way, and your transitional fall coat just doesn’t cut it in the warmth department anymore. Now comes the crucial decision—do you pull out last year’s outerwear from winter storage or spring for something new? Since your coat is the majority of your wardrobe for the next five months (okay, maybe seven—we are in Chicago), it’s worth the extra thought (and cash) to make this piece the superlative of your wardrobe. In the midst of...
Book treats Internet with wonder, criticism
By Sierra Sterling / November 20, 2007
The ways in which we know each other have changed. And reputation, the perception others have of us, has grown more vulnerable. According to Daniel Solove, author of the timely The Future of Reputation: Gossip, Rumor, and Privacy on the Internet, the Internet is to blame. The Internet affords us tremendous opportunities for spreading information that were unthinkable years ago. But not all information should be spread. Most people work carefully to construct public and private selves, relegating to the private sphere what they would rather not everyone know. The Internet blurs these lines between public and private. Take, for...
Neil Young mixes old and new in solo acoustic set
By Oliver Mosier / November 20, 2007
I waited a long time to see Neil Young. I listened to all his albums, as well as hard-to-find rarities—everything from bootlegs to studio albums. I imagined what he was like in the early days. Even with all that buildup, though, his concert on November 13 at the Chicago Theatre did not disappoint. He played classic hits along with unreleased treasures. My only complaint was that it had to end after two hours. Sometimes when you try to reach out and touch one of your musical heroes, the person doesn’t live up to your image of him. After years on...
Bad Brains share deep thoughts on punk today
By Supriya Sinhababu / November 16, 2007
Bad Brains’ career has been as volatile as their music. Over the last 30 years they’ve found Rastafarianism, split up and regrouped too many times to count, and fused jazz, reggae, funk, and heavy metal with hundred-mile-per-hour hardcore punk. I caught up with bassist Darryl Jenifer to find out what the punk-rock godfathers Bad Brains are up to now. Supriya Sinhababu: Hi, this is Supriya from the Chicago Maroon. Darryl Jenifer: Supriya? That’s pretty. SS: Thanks! So, the last show you guys did was in London, right? How was that whole mini European tour? DJ: It was cool. It’s a...
UT actors breathe life into historic play’s difficult roles
By James Kraft / November 16, 2007
The first production of Look Back in Anger on the London stage was considered a revolutionary presentation, both thematically and stylistically. Audiences were shocked by the idea of a serious dramatic work that focused entirely on middle-class domestic disputes, and apparently audibly gasped when the curtain went up, revealing the character Allison Porter actually ironing, of all things, on stage. Pregnancy, infidelity, upper-middle class-girls marrying upper-lower -class boys­­—all this was very shocking stuff in England in 1956. When you take the shock value away from the play, however, there isn’t much left. Jimmy Porter, the show’s lead, is a sarcastic...
Shortcuts—Laura Veirs’s Saltbreakers
By Caelyn Cobb / November 16, 2007
If you’re dying to pretend the Decemberists show is still happening, then lend a little authenticity to your fantasy and check out Saltbreakers, the latest album from would-be special guest Laura Veirs. Listening to it is kind of like watching your favorite band’s newest opening act—the musicians are good enough to keep your attention and maybe make you check out some of their work, but not quite outstanding enough to steal the show. Saltbreakers, the fifth studio release for Veirs, certainly has a few standout tracks. When pairing her quiet and somewhat harsh voice with slow, ambient instrumentation, Veirs is...
Shortcuts—Boyz II Men’s Motown: A Journey Through Hitsville
By Dmitri Leybman / November 16, 2007
What ever happened to Boyz II Men? How did the most successful R&B group go from churning out some of the most popular singles of the ’90s—even managing at one point to join the Beatles as the only other group to replace themselves at number one on the Billboard Hot 100—to releasing one lackluster album after another? The trend began in 2004 with the release of Throwback, an album consisting entirely of covers of songs that never needed to be redone in the first place. The disappointment continues with their newest release, Motown: A Journey Through Hitsville, a collection of...
Three-letter word—November 16, 2007
By Sid Branca Cook / November 16, 2007
A long time ago, for a class I still haven’t gotten a grade for, I started writing a paper about gender roles. Exciting, I know. I had read the autobiography of a male-to-female gender crosser, and sometimes I wanted to bang my head against a wall. I admire the author, Deirdre McCloskey, greatly. She has been very, very brave, but I was so frustrated because she was still caught in the gender roles she was raised with. Her language so often seemed to emphasize some vast gender divide. Women behave one way, men another, and to change behavior is to...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—November 16, 2007
By Benjamin Rossi / November 16, 2007
Friday/ November 16 Phat Pitch, a new RSO dedicated to sponsoring campus music of all kinds, screens The Wizard of Oz synched with Pink Floyd’s Dark Side of the Moon tonight. Are the seeming congruities between album and film eerie coincidences or part of a design by Floyd’s Roger Waters or, spookier, MGM head of production Mervyn Leroy in a moment of Nostradamus-magnitude divination? Has anyone thought of synching Snow White with Pet Sounds? Dude. Also, look carefully for the famous munchkin suicide during the forest scene, just after Dorothy has met the tin man. (Stuart 101, 7 p.m., free)...
Canadian bands play powerful sets
By Yusuf Siddiquee / November 16, 2007
I can’t think of a better combination. Apostle of Hustle and Do Make Say Think are both Broken Social Scene affiliates, but their sounds are so different that the two of them combined provided a powerful performance last Saturday. Apostle of Hustle looked a bit slimmer this year with only the core trio present (they had two more members on tour last year), but sounded tighter and more energetic because of it. Lead men Andrew Whiteman and Julian Brown sported heavily distorted electric or bass guitars, while Dean Stone was on drums or the “cajun” box drum. From the outset,...
Annuals bloom despite crowd’s gloom
By Yusuf Siddiquee / November 13, 2007
If you’ve heard of a little North Carolinian band named Annuals, chances are you’ve heard their annoying, yet infectious, short single “Brother.” Last week at Subterranean, Annuals rocked the house with their single and plenty of other experimental pop gems in an almost religious fashion. Lead singer Adam Baker stretched his vocal cords as far as they would go for every song; at times there were two full drum sets blaring with Baker banging on a lone tom and lead guitarist Kenny Florence wailed all night long. Opening with “Nah Keseyi” from their recently released B-sides compilation, Frelen Mas, Annuals...
No movie for the weak of stomach
By Abigail Brown / November 13, 2007
The Coen brothers, Joel and Ethan, directors and producers of Fargo and The Big Lebowski, have come out with a new film, No Country for Old Men. Starring Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem, and Josh Brolin, with a brief cameo by Woody Harrelson, this is the brothers’ stab at action movies. The jury’s still out as to whether they succeed. The story, set in 1980, follows Llewelyn Moss (Brolin), a Texas native who stumbles upon the deaths of Mexican drug runners in the desert. At the scene, he finds and pockets two million dollars in cash, which sets off a...
Velvet sounds smooth despite the venue
By Azure Gilman / November 13, 2007
Subterranean is one of those tragically flawed venues. It’s long and lean, shaped like a jewel box, and it has a balconied second floor with an unusual and pretty spectacular view of the stage. With bars on both floors, it’s luxuriously designed for smaller crowds and creates the perfect atmosphere for up-and-coming bands who aren’t otherwise packing their shows. The flaw, however, is its acoustics. Bands with a clean sound are likely to come off a jumbled mess, and music from loud mixed-melody groups like The Velvet Teen gets helplessly lost bouncing from one wall to the next. The Friday...
Clothes-minded—November 13, 2007
By Allison Cassing / November 13, 2007
How does Armani come to be Armani? Prada to be Prada? You have to have vision, skill, and a little bit of luck. If you get set on the right track from the starting line and are fueled by passion and persistence, entrance into the influential fashion circle can’t be too far off. It seems, then, that anyone who is assisting Christian Dior at 18 is sure to have success ahead. Yves Saint Laurent certainly did. At 21, Saint Laurent succeeded Dior at his studio, and at 26 he opened his own couture house. His remarkable couturier skills and private...
The Weary Epicurean—November 13, 2007
By James Kraft / November 13, 2007
According to Wikipedia, food politics “are the political aspects of the production, control, regulation, inspection, and distribution of food.” In other words, the politics of food are rooted in disagreements over what can ethically be done to an animal, how to define a “hygienic cooking environment,” whether ketchup is a vegetable, and so on. You don’t really hit the food politics, then, until you get a step away from the food— when you get to the level of abstraction where you’re thinking about how to police restaurants, farms, and so on. Certainly, these are all important aspects of food politics,...
Shortcuts—Alicia Keys’s As I Am
By Emale Gray / November 13, 2007
Coming from a girl who once preached, “You don’t know my name,” Alicia Keys has accomplished more than a name can encompass. The benevolent charity work, promising acting career, and budding musical endeavors are a miniscule part of the maturation of Keys, and As I Am is yet another example of this development. The youthful, yet established, tones found in Songs in A Minor succeeded in announcing Keys’s presence as she went from “Fallin’” in and out of love to substantiating the worth of a woman. Divulging her emotions, Keys unlocked her Diary, exposing some of her most intimate work...
Pared-down band packs a spirited punch
By Yusuf Siddiquee / November 9, 2007
Ever since I saw Broken Social Scene at Lollapalooza ’06, I have compared every concert to it. Nothing has been able to top the experience. I wasn’t expecting anything as good from Broken Social Scene playing Kevin Drew’s Spirit If…, both because the album was not as strong as any of the band’s records and because only six people (as opposed to 14 or more) are currently on tour. Instead, I was pleasantly surprised to see founding members Kevin Drew and Brendan Canning (and friends) take the stage and give an electrifying performance. Many of the songs from Spirit If…...
Despite best efforts, models still dumb
By Evelyn Wiese / November 9, 2007
There are certain things that at first don’t seem nearly as scary as they actually are. Not until Al Gore brought skyrocketing line graphs and drowning polar bears to movie theaters throughout the country did many see the magnitude of global warming. Record label crackdowns on illegal file-sharing didn’t seem like such a big deal to most people until friends of friends got hit with lawsuits. And, for me, it took Ben Stein scoffing, “Darfur is not a men’s cologne,” to make the just-hatched television- and movie-writers’ strike downright frightening. If the writers won’t write and the strike continues through...
New Chabon novel travels the Silk Road
By Cheryl Luce / November 9, 2007
Michael Chabon, author of Gentlemen of the Road, presumes that his readership knows little about the kingdom of the Khazars, about the political and religious tension in 10th-century Eurasia, or about the competing middle empires of the Caucus region. What is more important than all of this for the readers of this novel is that they must love an adventure. Not into adventure? You might want to sit this one out. Set on the Silk Road in 950 A.D., the novel follows Amram, an axe-toting African giant known for his witty dialogue and his short temper, and Zelikman, a lanky...
Three Letter Word—November 9, 2007
By Sid Branca Cook / November 9, 2007
Every time I sit down to write this column is torturous. My friends and coworkers hear me whine about it every week. Time moves quickly, weeks pass, and I still don’t know what to say. I am beginning to suspect that my topic is too broad. Sex is all over the place, even when you aren’t having it. There are so many facets that I don’t know how to pick one. I don’t have something like a sex work profession, a polyamorous relationship, or an active role in a thriving kink community to give me direction. Nobody sends me letters....
The Gadabout—November 9, 2007
By Clay Smith / November 9, 2007
The beginning of November throughout the U of C is not a time for thanks or giving so much as it is the time to begin six months of cursing and tramping around in ubiquitous, heavy-duty North Face apparel. Given the cheerfully brisk temperatures below 32 degrees and the impending likelihood of flurries, it makes some sense that Scooter’s Frozen Custard in Lakeview will be closing for the winter by Thanksgiving. That gives you two weeks, though, to act before “Chicago’s only custard,” as they claim, goes into hibernation. We are serious—custard deprivation is not an option. For those uninitiated...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—November 9, 2007
By Ben Rossi / November 9, 2007
Friday / November 9 The small, guitarlike instrument known as the cuatro is the centerpiece of tonight’s Puerto Rican Cuatro Music Festival at the Auditorium Theatre. Unique to Puerto Rico (the cuatro is to Puerto Ricans what the bagpipe is to the Scots), it has five double strings, producing a dulcet sound that is a cross between a twelve-string guitar and a mandolin. Puerto Rican musicians have adapted it to a wide range of music, from traditional folk tunes to more modern compositions. The festival itself, put on by the Puerto Rican Arts Alliance and Exelon, is the largest indoor...
Stars reach out with love and roses
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 6, 2007
You know that feeling of being acquainted with a happy family and wishing you were a member of it? That’s what it was like to see Stars play at the Vic last Friday. They liked one another, and seemed to be playing for and to one another and it was impossible to be standing in that audience without wishing you could be up on that stage, too. Luckily, lead singer Torquil Campbell told his audience halfway through the concert, “Anybody can be in a band, guys. Just drink a lot and dress like your best friends.” My concert going companion...
Múm wows crowd with laptop pop
By Christine Yang / November 6, 2007
After getting off the Blue Line to go to the Múm show, my friend and I became hopelessly lost. We wandered around Logan Square for a bit before deciding to just follow the hipsters to the well concealed Logan Square Auditorium. And indeed, the Múm show, featuring opener Tom Brosseau, was a hipster’s dream come true, as the venue was packed with tight jeans and cutting-edge fashion. Though Brosseau tried to work the crowd with his minimalist folk songs, the crowd waited restlessly for the entrance of Múm. Brosseau had to dedicate an especially quiet song to the loud section...
Final Cut slashes uncertainties
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 6, 2007
Is Deckard a Replicant? The question has become almost as a famous as the movie to which it refers: Blade Runner. Now widely regarded as a classic (and a recent newcomer to the AFI’s revised list of the 100 greatest American films), Blade Runner is now showing at the Music Box as what’s fittingly called the final cut. The newest version is the culmination of distribution and editing controversies that have followed the film since before its 1982 premiere. There are multiple nuances to the various versions of the film, but the problem that has always stuck is whether Rick...
The Weary Epicurean—November 6, 2007
By James Kraft / November 6, 2007
Just add water We all begin life as soupeaters, essentially. It is the most primal, the most Freudian of foods—particularly those creamy French purées, reminiscent of baby food and mothers’ milk. It’s also probably the oldest preparation that you’d really call cooking—the only more basic application of heat possible would be meat on a stick, and I’m not sure it would be fair to call a cave man’s corn dog cooking. Whole cultures grow up around soups, particularly in cold climates. Borscht, for instance, can be a rather political dish. Cold and puréed, it is Russian; hot and with meat,...
Clothes-minded—November 6, 2007
By Allison Cassing / November 6, 2007
“Look, something shiny!” It’s a sentence sure to create a distraction. There’s just something about the reflection of light that we can’t seem to get enough of. Who could ever pay attention in spelling class when taking notes in glitter pen? And what better way to spruce up a lackluster outfit than with a bit of glitz? Jewelry isn’t the only thing sparkling this season. Sequins, gems, and metallics are making their presence felt. Designers are adding radiant, bold details to clothes, shoes, and bags. Go ahead and step out in style—diamond-studded stilettos aren’t just for the glitterati anymore. Jewelry...
Shortcuts—Jay-Z’s American Gangster
By Dmitri Leybman / November 6, 2007
Don’t pay any mind to the naysayers who criticized Jay-Z’s previous album, the underrated Kingdom Come. They wrongly characterized it as an artistic flop, a disappointing return for a rapper who had finished his career by making The Black Album, one of his best and most influential works. Jay’s problem is his catalog of successful singles, like “Big Pimpin’,” “Hola’ Hovito,” and “Dirt Off Your Shoulder,” as well as at least three brilliant albums; I submit The Blueprint and The Black Album as two of the best rap albums of the decade. In these works, Jay merged the popular sound...
Sex, murder, and cerebral palsy in Glover’s latest
By Brian White / November 1, 2007
Crispin Glover’s work is very hard to explain. It is all at once completely insane, strangely touching, and positively uncomfortable to watch. To put it as simply as possible, It Is Fine. Everything Is Fine! tells the story of a man afflicted with cerebral palsy, a hair fetish, and homicidal tendencies. He somehow seduces women into having sex with him, and then he strangles them. At one point in the movie, the main character, Paul, is rejected by a woman who refuses to marry him because of his disability. The next day, he strangles her and then has sex with...
Jerry! Jerry! Sensationalism springs eternal
By Supriya Sinhababu / November 1, 2007
Tuesday afternoon, I paid a visit to the NBC Tower downtown with three fellow students in tow to meet our favorite former Cincinnati mayor and news anchor; now he hosts a sensationalist talk show of which you may have heard. Since anyone within the area of this newspaper’s circulation can easily experience the madness for themselves, I won’t recount the details of the taping we saw. Instead, I give you the following interview, conducted partly in Jerry Springer’s office and partly over the phone. Supriya Sinhababu: You reached 3,000 shows last year, right? Jerry Springer: Yeah. SS: Do you want...
Art, supporting acts shine in UT’s Picasso
By James Kraft / November 1, 2007
University Theater’s production of Picasso at the Lapin Agile, playing this weekend in the Third Floor Theater of the Reynolds Club, is a spirited comedy well worth seeing. Written by Steve Martin, it originally appeared at the Steppenwolf Theater 15 years ago. Director Paul Bruton’s ambitious effort, backed by a talented and dedicated team of actors and designers, had me giggling throughout. As you might expect from a Steve Martin play, it shines in the small parts. William Coon’s Schmendiman character, in particular—the fellow apparently responsible for such 20th- century innovations as saying “cheese” during photographs and the use of...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—November 2, 2007
By Ben Rossi / November 1, 2007
Friday / November 2 The Center for East Asian Studies, the Art and Politics of East Asia Workshop, and the Korean Film Council are sponsoring an ongoing Korean film festival at Doc Films this month. On Friday night don’t miss Grain in Ear, about an ethnic Korean struggling to survive in Chinese society, and Save the Green Planet, in which a young man believes that aliens are taking over the Earth. This Korean double feature is a must-see. (Max Palevsky Cinema, 5 p.m. and 8 p.m., $5) About one part play and three parts “magical clown show,” as its creators...
Shortcuts—The Brit Box
By Elizabeth Grobel / October 29, 2007
Maybe you’ve wondered what happened in British pop music post-Invasion, on the tail end of the punk movement. If you’re too shy to ask the record shop locals, Rhino Records has a quick and easy digest for you in the form of The Brit Box: U.K., Indie, Shoegaze And Brit-Pop Gems of the Last Millennium. The four-disc, 78-song compilation is a chronological panorama of the bands and songs that made culture across the pond from 1984–1998. While these bands enjoyed laudatory recognition in England and reigned over the U.K. charts, many of them barely dented the American musical consciousness. Brit...
Battles conquer definite articles, LPs, world
By Supriya Sinhababu / October 29, 2007
Against a backdrop of same-old same-old independent rock and barely experimental DJ wankery, the mathlete rockers of Battles put their instruments and laptops to the task of busting out tunes you can shake a fist to. The band will play Metro November 8, hitting Chicago for the third time this year in support of their latest disc, Mirrored. I chatted with Battles guitarist and bassist David Konopka about mirrored boxes, Marilyn Manson, and everything in between. Chicago Maroon: Did you guys play Vegas last night? David Konopka: Yeah, we played a festival called Vegoose. It was cool…you know Vegas, it’s...
Back on track, Blackout won’t put Britney’s career to bed
By Emale Gray / October 29, 2007
Who can get charged with a hit-and-run, shave her head as bald as Sinead O’Connor, marry, divorce, lose custody of two children to an Eminem understudy, and still make you want to buy her new album? It’s Britney, bitch. “Are you sure you want a piece of me?” Spears dares readers in a People article. And the answer is yes. After practically growing up with this Louisiana hick, watching her do everything from plasticize her breasts to slump around like Ms. Piggy on crack at the MTV VMAs, the whole world really is begging her to “gimme more.” Yet even...
The Weary Epicurean—October 30, 2007
By James Kraft / October 29, 2007
A proper cookbook can make the difference between someone who doesn’t know how to cook and someone who “tries a thing or two every now and then.” If you can carefully follow instructions and your cookbook is clearly and tastefully written, you can produce a well composed, home-cooked dinner for friends from time to time, which is mostly all people want out of cooking these days anyway. Then again, a truly magnificent cookbook can set you on your way to real kitchen prowess. A great cookbook doesn’t just list good recipes. A great cookbook is a polemic, either cultural or...
Clothes-minded—October 30, 2007
By Allison Cassing / October 29, 2007
’Tis the season for runway shows, fa(ll) la la la la! In the past weeks, editors have been jetting to and from major fashion capitals, attending show after show of dazzling spring 2008 collections. Following closely on the heels of spring will be spring couture, followed by next year’s ready-to-wear resort and fall couture collections. Luckily for the fashion-obsessed, there never seems to be a lull. Fashion shows range from the traditional (the tents at Bryant Park in NYC) to the extravagant (Lagerfeld’s latest show for Fendi on the Great Wall of China), and so do the clothes on the...
Joy Division biopic full of unknown pleasures
By James Kraft / October 26, 2007
Anton Corbijn’s rock biopic of Joy Division singer Ian Curtis, Control, strays far from the norm of that genre in both the obviously high level of care devoted to the artwork of the film and the sensitivity in its treatment of the subject matter. The result is a soul-shaking success that left me gray and speechless for several hours. Don’t watch this film if you’re trying to quit smoking. The film chronicles Curtis’s life from his mid-teens to his suicide at the age of 23. It focuses mostly on his personal commitment to authenticity in his art, as well as...
Art, music, and language mingle at the Ossia Fine Arts Space
By Lisbeth Redfield / October 26, 2007
Chicago rumor is a bit vague on where to find the good art galleries. But if you ask the average art patron, especially on this campus, he probably won’t tell you to check out the Fine Arts Building on the corner of Michigan Avenue and East Congress Parkway. The building is home to an eclectic mix of fine artists, with everything from ballet studios to sheet-music stores renting space. The nine-story historic Chicago building contains a Venetian courtyard, a marble-lined lobby, and old-fashioned elevators with attendants. On the fifth floor of the building, you’ll find the Ossia Fine Arts Space,...
Chris and the Crowes continue to fly high
By Anjali Verghis / October 26, 2007
When I told people I was going to see The Black Crowes, they either had no idea who I was talking about (“The Counting Crows, you mean?”) or only knew frontman Chris Robinson as actress Kate Hudson’s ex-husband. The band’s lack of recognition is a shame since the Black Crowes have been dubbed “the most rock and roll rock and roll band in the world” by the magazine Melody Makers. They have also released several excellent albums and toured with such artists as Jimmy Page, Tom Petty, and ZZ Top. Led by Chris Robinson and his guitarist brother Rich, the...
Shortcuts—Neil Young’s Chrome Dreams II
By Oliver Mosier / October 26, 2007
Don Corleone needed more screen time. Gordon Bombay had an important second wind. Sequels happen all the time. Neil Young’s Chrome Dreams II, released on Tuesday, is a slightly different kind of sequel. Chrome Dreams was slated to come out in 1977, but Young never released it. The scrapped album contained an eclectic mix of tracks released on later albums, along with some that have never been officially distributed. Chrome Dreams II is a striking counterpart to Young’s politically charged Living With War. The material on the former is an interesting collection of styles and moods, whereas the latter antiwar...
The Gadabout—October 26, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / October 26, 2007
The infamous Wicker Park is known as a land of funky hipster coffee shops and sexy sushi bars, so it’s refreshing to see a nice cheap ethnic spot add a dollop of contrast to the neighborhood. Sultan’s Market, however, cannot be classified as your token “cheap ethnic” place; rather than serving the same role as the tired old Chinese takeout down the street or that one stand that sells burritos with bite, Sultan’s Market brings customers genuine falafel and more at a legitimate level of both authenticity and deliciousness. Although its exterior sign is a large, golden, onion-like sultan’s hat,...
Three Letter Word—October 26, 2007
By Sid Branca Cook / October 26, 2007
I’ve spent a significant part of the last few weeks climbing on people. Babbling incoherently, I have fallen onto bodies. I have pushed against toes as we crawled across the floor together. I have elbowed; I have kicked; I have hugged and lent a hand to pull somebody up. I have not been having sex but still spend nights grinning and exhausted, sticky with other people’s sweat. This is an important part of why I do theater, of why I go to punk shows. I’ve been thinking lately about the importance of physical contact. Not touching as sex, but touching...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—October 26, 2007
By Ben Rossi / October 26, 2007
This week, the week of midterms, the events are all local. Friday / October 26 The second part of the series “Voices from Iraq,” sponsored by the department of Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations and Campus Progress, features a screening of a 2006 documentary about American army recruits. The Ground Truth: After the Killing Ends delivers a searing portrayal of the systematic dehumanization of American troops from basic training to the killing fields of Iraq. A discussion follows the screening. (Breasted Hall, Oriental Institute, 7 p.m., free) Besides the leering black-face caricatures in D.W. Griffith’s The Birth of a Nation,...
Anderson on track with The Darjeeling Limited
By Elizabeth Grobel / October 22, 2007
The Darjeeling Limited may be director Wes Anderson’s most challenging film to date. Those familiar with Anderson’s previous feature-length works (Bottle Rocket, Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums, and The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou) are likely to greet this film with a certain degree of recognition. This feeling of familiarity, I think, is mostly due to Anderson’s continuing collaboration with cinematographer Robert Yeoman, whose eye and hand have informed the striking visual harmonies of Anderson’s movies since Bottle Rocket. The script, written by Anderson, Jason Schwartzman, and Roman Coppola, bears some hallmarks of earlier Anderson works: dark, deadpan humor; dysfunctional families;...
New Pornographers bare souls, don’t sell themselves short
By Elizabeth Goetz / October 22, 2007
My mother was making idle conversation with me at one point this summer, and remembered an upcoming concert I’d been excited about. “Whom are you going to see again?” she asked after a moment of silence. “The…the prostitutes?” Confused, I stammered as I tried to figure out what was going on. Finally, we figured out that no, this was not a conversation about my study-abroad adventures in the red-light districts of Amsterdam and Paris, but rather one about a concert I’d been excited about for months: The New Pornographers were finally coming back to Chicago. My mother has never been...
Clothes-minded—October 23, 2007
By Allison Cassing / October 22, 2007
One way to pass time on campus is to try to guess the majors of people walking past. Since the situation is asymmetrical (they know and you don’t), you have to look for clues. But how, you may ask, can a once-over tell me about someone’s major? It’s expected that sometime in your future you will go for an interview, and since potential employers are likely to take cues from a candidate’s dress, you should be prepared to present yourself accordingly. A suit can say, “I’m willing to do what is expected of me and know what is professional.” Too...
The Weary Epicurean—October 23, 2007
By James Kraft / October 22, 2007
Chicago is renowned for its late-night, greasy fare. It’s amazing how many ways they’ve figured out to encase pork butt and heat it on a flat-top grill. You might need a car to get to some of the better-quality places, but with four years of college-level eating to fill in, there are some spots you really shouldn’t miss. My absolute favorite is Hot Doug’s—“the sausage superstore and encased meat emporium.” Located at 3324 North California Avenue and open Monday through Saturday from 10:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., it’s perfect for a Saturday brunch trip. They’ve really taken grilled sausage to...
Joffrey right en pointe with Giselle
By Jessica Hester / October 18, 2007
I felt nervous for Gerald Arpino. On Wednesday night, he sat watching the Joffrey Ballet dance the opening night performance, as he has done for the past 50 years—but this time was different. The 2007–2008 Joffrey Ballet season, which opened on Wednesday with a captivating rendition of the classic ghost story Giselle, will be the first in which the company is helmed by someone other than Arpino or Robert Joffrey, who co-founded the company in 1956. During their tenure, the company acquired the much-deserved reputation of ingeniously marrying classical vocabulary and contemporary sensibility. When the reputation is sterling, there’s a...
Vampires just bloodthirsty enough in 30 Days
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 18, 2007
Somewhere between 28 Days Later and A History of Violence lies 30 Days of Night, a film that masterfully executes its brilliant premise. It is arguably this year’s best horror film. Like what 28 Days Later did to zombie movies, the film breathes new life into vampire movies with a heavy emphasis on scenery and mood. And like A History of Violence, 30 Days uses a premise dreamed up in a graphic novel to show small town America’s nativist sensibilities become irrevocably fractured by an unspeakable evil. Director David Slade, though largely unproven, has shown a tendency to start films...
Traveling Yale exhibit gets Smart
By Horatio Joyce / October 18, 2007
If you have been trying to guess which masters reside in Yale University’s drawings collection, or have envisioned the Smart Museum’s gallery walls hung heavy with Albrecht Dürers, Rembrandts, or even a Leonardo da Vinci cartoon, you will be disappointed. If you need your old master fix, catch the Metra and head downtown—I hear the Art Institute has one or two. However, if you decide to stay on campus, which you should, the Smart has something to offer this quarter. The Yale University Art Gallery is well known for its European and American paintings and decorative arts collections—less so for...
Elizabeth unable to hide heavy plot behind ruffles
By Azure Gilman / October 18, 2007
It seemed to me that the preview for Elizabeth: The Golden Age was oddly split: courtly intrigues, a slice of Clive Owen, then suddenly loud emotional music, the queen in full armor, and a war with the Spanish patterned on a plotline vaguely like that of Miracle, the ice hockey movie. Not that it was a bad preview—it was a great attention-grabber, actually—but I thought that somewhere along the line an editor got a little carried away. Surely the movie would be more subtle and cohesive than a heavy-handed woman/warrior duality. After all, the prequel to this film, Elizabeth, was...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—October 19, 2007
By Ben Rossi / October 18, 2007
Friday / October 19 On Friday and Saturday the Franke Institute for the Humanities hosts a series of all-day mega-symposia entitled “Anxiety, Urgency, Outrage, Hope: A Conference on Political Feeling.” An irritated, multidisciplinary swarm of academics will discuss emotion in the public sphere with the aid of scholarly papers and film. Another interesting aspect of the conference is that participants will post their papers, syllabi, and bibliographies on the website politicalfeeling.uchicago.edu for the benefit of the Googling masses. (Joseph Regenstein Library S-118, 9 a.m.–6 p.m., free) Come see the U of C’s very own improv group, Off-Off Campus, build comedic...
Crowd runs away with jittery Spoon
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 15, 2007
The Riviera is an enormous venue, and the fact that it was completely packed on Friday night is a testament to how far Spoon have come. Just five months ago they were performing at Hutchinson Courtyard, asking undergrads for weed at the end of their set. Now, fresh off the success of July’s Ga Ga Ga Ga Ga, they’ve sold out Riviera at the same speed Nirvana did in the early ’90s. Until recently, the common line in the press on Spoon was that they’d quietly put together one of the best rock catalogs of the decade. On Friday, facing...
McQueen mines images of industry
By Holly Lutz / October 15, 2007
In his latest film Gravesend, British filmmaker and Turner Prize–winner Steve McQueen takes a close look at the relationship between humanity and industry. The 18-minute film, presented by the University of Chicago’s Renaissance Society, explores the elements of industrial process through a combination of extreme close-ups and prolonged time-lapse shots. Tempting as it is to find a political message in this work, the film is too abstract for us to draw any definite conclusions. In the opening scene, a river-like line twists and turns across the screen, and continues for several minutes before transitioning into a scene in which an...
The writing is disappearing from the wall
By James Dobson / October 15, 2007
Blunders, 18 irreparable, so easy to commit, 114 I first noticed several of the black inscriptions on the walls of the University during a prospective student weekend last spring. I read one while waiting in a long line descending the stairs of Social Sciences. The second was in Classics, on my way to find the café. I thought, knowing a little of the U of C’s penchant for the classics, perhaps these bits of text were supposed to be a modern take on the fragments of Heraclitus. Returning to the campus as a student, I noticed a few more of...
Shortcuts—Radiohead’s In Rainbows
By Yusuf Siddiquee / October 15, 2007
Forget the cryptic messages, the name-your-own-price deal, and any statement concerning the music industry. What about the music? Let’s talk about “15 Step” being the perfect opener to one of Radiohead’s best albums. It mixes loud, distorted drums with a real set as Thom Yorke’s wail establishes one thing: Radiohead have returned in as grand a fashion as ever. As the first track ended, I wondered what would happen next: Would there just be more blips and bleeps? Would they start rocking again like in Paranoid Android? Would they invent a new genre? Would Thom Yorke sing like a normal...
Clothes-minded—October 16, 2007
By Allison Cassing / October 15, 2007
To become a successful designer nowadays you have to do more than design great pieces—you need to be a personality. More and more, the designers who once only ran in the fashion circle are breaking into the mainstream and becoming part of the generally iconic. From the other direction, we’re seeing loads of celebrities who fancy themselves designers: the Olsen twins (sorry, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen), Jessica Simpson, Justin Timberlake, Ivanka Trump, Sarah Jessica Parker, Serena Williams, Scarlett Johansson, Paris Hilton…the list goes on and on. There have been mixed reviews as to whether the celeb collections merit recognition for...
Ted Leo openers stick to the formula
By Azure Gilman / October 15, 2007
Lately, it seems the scene is always the same. For moderately successful musicians on their U.S. tours, the formula for opening bands is downright predictable. The first group is incredible, mind-blowing even, but their performance is marked by a small audience consisting of the after-work crowd. The second group, blessed with a larger, slightly rowdier audience, is the worst band you’ve seen to date. It’s hard to describe bad music, but I like to think of it in terms of time frame. Sometimes you can tell a good band in the first three seconds—sometimes it takes 20 minutes to get...
The Weary Epicurean—October 16, 2007
By James Kraft / October 15, 2007
Your parents may very well be arriving this Friday. You’re probably obsessing over this. Rooms will be hurriedly cleaned, vacuums borrowed, nicotine gum purchased, drug paraphernalia tucked away in quiet corners, but have you thought at all about what mom and pop are to eat? You want something impressive, something that screams, “I have a new home and I’m taking very good care of myself, thank you!” But up until this point, the most complicated dish you’ve attempted is a Moo and Oink patty with “spice rub” and a can of Pabst Blue Ribbon. Well, never fear: there are many...
Redford reaches out to younger generations
By Supriya Sinhababu / October 11, 2007
Half an hour before Robert Redford’s new film Lions and Lambs previewed at Doc Films, a queue of hundreds beginning in front of Palevsky Cinema stretched outside and ended on the last squares of sidewalk before the Midway. Maybe the turnout wasn’t a surprise, considering all the advantages of the event. Not only was the preview free and open to the public a month before its national release date, but Redford himself, along with two costars, agreed to field a question-and-answer session after the screening. In another sense, though, this was a bizarre audience. Sure, any respectable movie buff will...
Whimsical Wolf whisks through the Windy City, kite in tow
By Salom Teshale / October 11, 2007
It was 8:25 p.m., and the crowd was growing restless. Patrick Wolf was scheduled to come on at 8 p.m. after his supporting act Bishi, but there was no sign of him. When the lights began to dim, the crowd cheered. But it was a false alarm, and “Awwwws” filled the air, drowning out the interim music. I personally would have preferred to hear more of Bishi, a performer who combined headbanging sitar solos with a pounding electropop backbeat, but someone decided to put Britney Spears’s In the Zone on repeat instead. Around 8:40, when Wolf finally strode on stage,...
The Gadabout—October 12, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / October 11, 2007
As a sister restaurant to the molecular gastronomy temple moto, OTOM makes a name out of opposites. At the dead center of the Jungle-like, industrial part of the West Loop (complete with butcher smells and warehouses), OTOM is reminiscent of a sleek oasis. With minimalist white chairs, black tables, and hardwood floors accented by sheer gray drapes and hip pinstripes in bold red, orange, and turquoise, plus $12 specialty martinis, it’s a setting straight out of Sex and the City. Although it tends to look abandoned around 6:30 even on a Saturday night, OTOM transforms into a bustling haven ready...
Voices Stuff to Do (STD)—October 12, 2007
By Ben Rossi / October 11, 2007
Friday / October 12 Ida Noyes Hall rocks out this Friday as COUP hosts its annual Blues ’n’ Ribs event. The event is a venerable campus institution—like the Committee on Social Thought, but tastier and louder. Local blues bands will you keep you shuffling back and forth and snapping your fingers awkwardly all night (or maybe that’s just me). Great American comfort food, like St. Louis–style ribs, corn bread, cole slaw, and potato salad is served, with spanakopita for the vegetarians. (Ida Noyes Hall, 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., free) Michael Snow’s Corpus Callosum, so named after the region of...
Three Letter Word—October 12, 2007
By Sid Branca Cook / October 11, 2007
I confess that there is a particular appeal to being the stumbling drunk couple. You burst into a room full of slightly buzzed people, falling and yelling and kissing, making a mess of everyone until you disappear somewhere together. I have a weakness for a boy with a mason jar of whiskey, or a girl who blows perfect smoke rings. But, unsurprisingly, this leads me to consider the tricky questions of intoxication, seduction, and consent. Legally speaking, nobody under the influence is qualified to give consent. Those poorly designed posters around campus tell us that much, complete with bullet points...
Palme d’Or winner derives global truths about oppression
By Ben Rossi / October 11, 2007
This year’s Palme d’Or winner at Cannes Film Festival, 4 months, 3 weeks, and 2 days, opens with the image of two goldfish in a bowl. It quickly becomes clear that this shot represents what it feels like to be one of the two female characters in the story. Using minimalist camera work and a devastatingly effective narrative, director and writer Cristian Mungiu creates a gripping portrait of life under a totalitarian regime. But, more importantly, he depicts life as lived by a young woman in a society that ruthlessly censures sexual mistakes. This is a movie that speaks very...
Contrary to title, Gray’s crime thriller owns little
By Elizabeth Goetz / October 11, 2007
Like most of the world, I saw The Departed last winter. “I thought it was pretty good,” I told my cinephile companion as we emerged from the theater after it ended. But then he tried to talk to me about, you know, the events of the plot, and it quickly became clear that I had confused Leonard DiCaprio and Matt Damon for much of the movie, shameful for anyone who was a girl in middle school when Titanic came out. I can, however, say this for The Departed: I may have been incredibly confused during much of it (despite the...
Patrick Wolf on style, art, and his favorite position
By Salom Teshale / October 8, 2007
Glittery British folk-popper Patrick Wolf has accomplished a lot in his 24 years on this earth: He’s made three critically acclaimed albums, mastered five instruments, played an almost infinite amount of shows and festivals, and dyed his hair at least three different colors at once. Wolf is currently touring North America to promote his new album, The Magic Position, and took a few moments to talk to the Chicago Maroon by phone from a tour bus on the road to Montreal. Chicago Maroon: So you’ve been doing a lot of touring. Aren’t you doing four continents right now? Patrick Wolf:...
Beirut brings out the brass and busts out brand new songs
By Yusuf Siddiquee / October 8, 2007
Zach Condon, founder of indie rock band Beirut, has come a long way from home. When he took the stage at the Portage Theater Thursday night, anybody who knew his story would have been surprised to see the 22-year-old from Santa Fe, New Mexico, bellowing notes at the top of his lungs and commanding an eight-piece ensemble of horns, ukuleles, guitars, and drums. Beirut quickly populated the stage after two solo opening acts and launched into their latest album’s second track, “Nantes.” Condon let the crowd know, by inserting random French conversation into his performance, that the music this time...
Clothes-minded—October 9, 2007
By Allison Cassing / October 8, 2007
The Devil Wears Prada may have suggested that the fashion world churns out clones of polished, well coiffed fashionistas, but in truth the industry thrives on eccentrics. The Voguette and the University of Chicago student are not as different from each other as one may think: Neither is a stranger to the quirky, and both have come to embrace the unconventional. Hammer pants may not be en vogue anytime soon, but there’s always something to be said for individual flair. If you can’t keep up with the latest trends, it’s probably for the better. Make like the fashion radicals below...
St. Martin’s provides breezy relief for a muggy Friday
By Lisbeth Redfield / October 8, 2007
The University of Chicago Presents got off to a sticky start last Friday with their first concert of the year in 60-percent-humidity weather. Undaunted—and carrying fans—audience members turned out in droves to see the musicians from Britain’s acclaimed Academy of St. Martin’s in the Fields Chamber Ensemble playing works of Dvorák, Shostakovich, and Mendelssohn. The Academy was formed in 1959 as a chamber group, later expanding into a full chamber orchestra. Drawn from the principal players of the orchestra, the Chamber Ensemble tours as a string octet, string sextet, and in other configurations, some including wind players. Its touring commitments...
The Weary Epicurean—October 9, 2007
By James Kraft / October 8, 2007
Chicago has a lot more Mexican cuisine to offer than the Bartlett burrito station. In fact, the most well regarded, high-end Mexican restaurant in the country, the Frontera Grill, is right on North Clark Street. No one should graduate without paying a visit. But there are great Mexican restaurants on the South Side as well, and at prices much easier to fit into the typical college allowance. I recently tried Nuevo León, on South Ashland and 18th Street. Their braised, barbecued, and burnt meat selections offer a rich depth of flavor, delicate chewy textures, and the occasional superb crunchy crust....
Nutini and Ryder put Britney–style pop to shame
By Azure Gilman / October 8, 2007
When nearly everyone you meet is still experiencing post-traumatic flashbacks to Britney Spears’s VMA performance, it may be time for some music detox. I personally find it hard to remember that there are talented singers out there who aren’t compelled to put on a rhinestone bikini and hooker boots. Yes, it’s time to re-evaluate and ask why it’s almost shocking to hear good live music. Enter Serena Ryder and Paolo Nutini, members of the aforementioned talent, who brought two distinctive and powerful sounds to the Vic Theater last Tuesday night. The show opened with Ryder performing an a capella blues...
MCA keeps the rock ‘n’ roll alive
By Italia Patti / October 5, 2007
Adam Pendleton’s paintings in Sympathy for the Devil: Art and Rock and Roll Since 1967 occupy the entryway of the Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA) without really enticing viewers to check them out. Pendleton’s 90 acrylic paintings of images from post-punk posters, promo photos, and record covers have a sexy rock ’n’ roll vibe. But the sleek black-and-white paintings recall iPod ads as much as Andy Warhol’s work with The Velvet Underground, the latter of which is the kind of thing I had really come to see. Others seemed to agree; visitora walked quickly by the entrance into the exhibit,...
Hanson mmmbops on
By Jessica Hester / October 5, 2007
It wasn’t until I went to college that my 12-year-old self finally saw her fantasy come to fruition. It was a long time coming and deliciously worth the wait. The object of my truest and most enduring affection has been a long-kept secret. It turns out that I’m not the only one. Last Sunday, I rushed the House of Blues stage with hundreds of my kind: women vying for Taylor Hanson. Ten years after they first flipped their luxurious locks and MMMBopped their way to boy band mega-stardom, the Hanson boys can still draw a crowd. Such a crowd, in...
Cavemen fail to evolve past neanderthal charm
By Oliver Mosier / October 5, 2007
In the world of humor, 30 seconds and 30 minutes are two very different animals. In the context of commercials, the Geico Cavemen demonstrated the brilliance of brevity. The TV spin-off, entitled Cavemen, on ABC hits some solid chords, but the overall show lacks any real substance. The only substance readily apparent is the outrageous amount of facial and body hair given to the classy cavemen. Sure, at times it’s cute, but I found nothing in the show even close to the humor of the commercial in which one caveman orders roast duck with the mango salsa. Upon watching the...
Three Letter Word—October 5, 2007
By Sid Branca Cook / October 5, 2007
Yesterday, for the second time in my life, I claimed to be lesbian because a man made me uncomfortable. I was walking to a puppet show alone during the last hour or so of daylight when a young man approached me. He was more a boy than anything, really, with that dark strained fuzz on his upper lip. He was shorter than me and seemed unsure of himself, but he was also too dazed by boldness, drugs, or desperation to be stopped. He asked me for change, and when I gave him a quarter, he asked me my name. I...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—October 5, 2007
By Ben Rossi / October 5, 2007
Friday, October 5 The acclaimed Academy of St. Martin in the Fields chamber ensemble heralds the sweet embrace of the week’s end with a set of early works by Romantic composers Shostakovich and Mendelssohn, plus a more mature piece by Dvorák. Reviewers from Buffalo to Denver have raved like dervishes about this Britain-based group, and this is the last time you’ll be able to see them—at least until next year. (Mandel Hall, 7:30 p.m., $5 for students) Looking for a block party with a spiritual vibe? Look no further than 818 Circus of the Spirit, an outdoor festival sponsored by...
First-time music festival jazzes up Hyde Park
By Supriya Sinhababu / October 2, 2007
Unlike most percussionists, Jumaane Taylor doesn’t use sticks—or even his hands for that matter. So it showed a good deal of skill when he managed to keep perfect time with his backing jazz band for several minutes before going solo, at which point he drummed deftly away with his feet at a heavily miked square of portable tap board, sans accompaniment, on the makeshift stage at the Midway ice rink. Drummer Charles “Rick” Heath didn’t leave Taylor alone in the spotlight for long. Holding two sticks in each hand, as if poised to destroy a tub of chow mein, Heath...
Halo 3: further improvements in the art of friendly bloodshed
By Brian White / October 2, 2007
It’s really difficult to get a handle on what Halo 3 is. After six years of record-breaking success, the Halo franchise is not just a series of video games. It has become a commercial and social phenomenon. On its opening day, Halo 3 outsold the openings of both Spiderman 3 and Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Halo is the first game to push video games from the realm of obscurity to a popularity formerly occupied only by movies, books, and TV. If nothing else, Halo will be remembered for making video games a truly bankable and mainstream...
Shortcuts—Bruce Springsteen’s Magic
By Dmitri Leybman / October 2, 2007
We need Magic, perhaps even as much as Bruce Springsteen himself. Since reuniting with his E Street Band on 2002’s The Rising—a sad but ultimately hopeful exploration of the September 11 attacks—Springsteen has divided his time between stark, bare recordings like Devils and Dust (very much in the mode of his 1982 masterpiece Nebraska) and diving into Pete Seeger’s musical catalog of protest folk on We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions. The Rising was Springsteen’s first album of all-new material since The Ghost of Tom Joad (1995), and it contained some stunning work, including loud, punchy anthems sustained by lyrics...
The Weary Epicurean—October 2, 2007
By James Kraft / October 2, 2007
Better Grocery Options Hyde Park grocery options, it is often lamented, are limited. The Co-op sells an extensive variety of foods, but quality is often poor and selection small—it doesn’t make much sense to stock Cornish game hens and Alaskan wild salmon, but only one variety of bratwurst. Then there’s Hyde Park Produce, which carries high-quality goods at reasonable prices, but in a very limited range. The adventurous chef must look elsewhere. And why not? Good food at reasonable prices is really just a short distance away. Twenty minutes north on the Kennedy Expressway, at the Randolph Street exit (Green...
The Kingdom fights bad guys, runs from real issues
By Ben Rossi / September 30, 2007
The Kingdom, a Middle Eastern–flavored thriller starring Jamie Foxx, is a true testament to the magic of cinema. It transforms an appallingly complex, morally ambiguous political situation into a thrilling, vérité-style, almost guilt-free tale of good versus evil. Although set in Saudi Arabia, The Kingdom is about a million miles away from what some refer to as the “problem” of the Middle East. Jamie Foxx plays an FBI special agent who, along with a crack team (Jennifer Garner, Chris Cooper, and Jason Bateman), negotiates a secret weeklong investigation of a recent terrorist attack in Riyadh while Washington pussyfoots. With the...
Shortcuts—Various artists, Now-Again Re: Sounds Vol. 1
By Chris Ross / September 30, 2007
What is funk today? Where does funk live, who still makes it, and what does it smell like? Now-Again Re: Sounds, released by innovative hip-hop label Stones Throw, has answers to spare for these questions. Rescued from dusty Southern crates and basements, funk today lives most vivaciously on hip-hop’s retro horizons. The album’s esteemed D.J.s and producers—J. Rocc, Koushik, and Egon, among others—remix funk grooves never before released or previously available only on 7- or 12-inch vinyl. Funk smells as it always has: pungent and sweaty, originally a crass term for the olfactory effect of doing the dirty deed. In...
Lit-rockers Okkervil River put on new suits to match new album
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / September 30, 2007
Okkervil River’s lead singer and songwriter, Will Sheff, often appears particularly bleary-eyed on stage. In interviews, Sheff has said that he takes off his glasses when he performs so that he can’t actually see his audience. Though this may not be a good thing (if Sheff can’t see the edge of the stage, for example), it does make him different. Sheff is quite aware of this fact—when he performs, he’s a performer. Okkervil River are a self-reported “mid-level band.” They’ve been in existence for about 10 years, releasing well wrought albums and touring around the world. Until 2005’s Black Sheep...
Bioshock: a beautiful place to get shot in the face
By Brian White / September 30, 2007
Video games tend to be easy to describe. Plots usually go something like this: “You’re humanity’s last hope against an evil alien menace,” or “Collect the golden rings to save the country of Mythlandia,” or “Stack these colored blocks in rows.” Bioshock is a little different, to say the least. The best way to describe it is that you play as a man forced to fight his way through a gigantic city located at the bottom of an ocean which is populated by homicidal mutants, creepy little girls who harvest the stomachs of corpses and eat them, gigantic men in...
Shortcuts—Percee P’s Perseverance
By Seth Satterlee / September 30, 2007
On September 18, the long-awaited debut album of Percee P, “The Rhyme Inspector,” was released to the anticipation of dedicated fans around the world. Well known for featuring on tracks of alternative M.C.s such as Madlib, Aesop Rock, Kool Keith, Big Daddy Kane, Edan, and Jurassic 5, Percee has been making a name for himself in hip-hop for a long time but always from the shadows. Now, with the release of Perseverance, he is finally showcased in the foreground. I first heard Percee on the track “A Day at the Races” on Jurassic 5’s Power in Numbers and was immediately...
Three Letter Word—September 28, 2007
By Sid Branca Cook / September 30, 2007
I was awkward and sunburned in the Hamptons in August, sitting on a poolside veranda with an artsy, middle-aged couple and a gangly teenage boy. The adults were interrogating him about his love life, and when they found him reticent, they felt obligated to push. Finally, he blurted, “I’m considering banging this girl.” I laughed at his choice of the word “considering.” The couple was appropriately shocked. He muttered to his Chucks: “Hey, I said I was gonna say it in the most ho way possible, you got what you deserved.” His freckles blushed, and he loped out. I hoped...
The Gadabout—September 28, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / September 30, 2007
Autumn quarter at the University of Chicago starts at exactly the wrong time. During late September and early October, the time when fall foods and traditions are at their most delicious, students of all years instead initiate the revival of Bartlett, Pierce, B-J, and the Med. All too soon, winter begins, and fails to stop for another six months. In these remaining few weeks left of autumn in Chicago, when the nearest apple orchard is over an hour away in Indiana, the closest thing to a pumpkin patch is Daley’s “Pumpkin Plaza,” and the most legitimate autumnal food a Grande...
Bynes outshined by her dwarf contingent in fairy tale update
By Abigail Brown / September 30, 2007
Sydney White is a modernization of the famous Snow White fairytale. Far from the original Disney movie of years past, this film sets the action on a nondescript college campus, where Sydney, as Snow, is an entering college freshman with aspirations of joining her mother’s former sorority. Amanda Bynes, as the titular character, is supremely disappointing. Whereas in other films her bizarre sense of timing and acting seemed to carry plots, the plot and supporting characters carry her in this movie. Bynes, though never seen as a merit-worthy actor, fails to produce the charm of her comedic style in this...
Annual Chicagoland festival of gluttony packs big taste for an affordable price
By Abigail Brown / September 19, 2007
They came to eat. The masses of Chicago and its surrounding area came to Taste of Chicago once again this summer to produce the same great hit. Taste of Chicago, also known simply as Taste, occurs the week before the Fourth of July weekend and features myriad restaurants from Chicago and the diverse types of food the city has to offer. Each restaurant had its own booth and three selections of food from its menu. The fourth option from each booth was a cheaper three-ticket “taste” of one of the items on the menu. You could buy tickets as you...
Of sequels and Apatow: the movies of summer ’07
By Ethan Stanislawski / September 19, 2007
Summer ’07 was a smash success for Hollywood. Propelled by a perfect storm of franchise trilogies; one giant, robotic blockbuster; and a surprisingly strong August, Hollywood grossed more than $4 billion for the first time in its history. Hollywood also learned from its mistakes in year two of web 2.0; 2006 showed that Internet hype can build a solid audience (Borat) or create unrealistic expectations (Snakes on a Plane). The studios used Facebook, exclusive trailers and clips, and relations with powerful blogs to promote their films. I spent the summer at Moviefone, monitoring the trends of web hype and Hollywood...
Rowling wraps up series with most serious volume yet
By Michelle Welch / September 19, 2007
I am not going to tip-toe around the garden gnomes. Any self-respecting Harry Potter fan has already read Deathly Hallows…twice. So if you are worried about spoilers, stop reading now. Who has purchased action figures and T-shirts from Hot Topic? Who attended a midnight book release party and read straight through the night? Who spent most of that night quaking and trembling from Rowling’s fast-paced and suspenseful plot? Who couldn’t help screaming out, “I KNEW IT!” with every correctly predicted outcome? Who cried like a baby for essentially the final third of the book, particularly regarding certain characters’ fates? Who...
Kirkwoods, Meat Puppets still put on a good show
By Anjali Verghis / September 19, 2007
“Let’s see . . . there was our late ’90s rap album that got lost in a downloading power outage. Then there was our boy band album. That one we had to scrap for legal reasons and move to the Cayman Islands. That’s where I’ve been livin’ for the last 10 years. But this album, this one is really for the kids.” This is the history of the Meat Puppets that guitarist/singer Curt Kirkwood offers, in a recent article in Cleveland Scene, to those unacquainted with the trio’s background. In truth, the Meat Puppets (composed of Kirkwood, his brother Cris...
With new chapters, R. Kelly finds himself trapped in his own epic Closet
By Oliver Mosier / September 19, 2007
“You’re crazier than a fish with titties if you think I’m gonna let you smoke that shit up in my car.” Who said that, you ask? John Donne? Try again. William Wordsworth? Next. No, even they couldn’t have conceived of a line wrought with such symbolism and genius. It could only have been one man. It was none other than R. Kelly as the complex Sylvester in his masterpiece, Trapped in the Closet. I have never seen a “fish with titties,” but I can imagine it would be pretty wild. That’s the genius of Kelly, plain and simple. He is...
Sunshine cold at box office, but profound sci-fi flick deserves more
By Brian White / September 19, 2007
When I heard that the writer and director behind 28 Days Later were teaming up for another movie, I was understandably excited. When I heard the plot outline, I was understandably worried. It goes something like this: Sometime in the near future, the sun begins to go out, and a mission is sent to re-ignite it. That’s it. And really, that is all the movie is about. There’s no surprise twist that makes it about some epic struggle for the universe or the “soul” of humanity. This movie is about a space ship that is sent to re-ignite the sun....
Deans’ Men bring Midsummer in May
By Jessica Hester / June 1, 2007
Though the evening certainly didn’t feel like a midsummer’s night, Shakespeare-lovers packed Hutchinson Courtyard last Friday evening to see the Deans’ Men perform A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Directed by second-year Evan Cudworth, this rendition of one of Shakespeare’s most famous comedies was as accessible as it was charming. The play felt like an update, but, unlike Leonardo DiCaprio’s infamous turn as Romeo, managed not to compromise the integrity of the Bard’s work. The script was unabridged, but the costumes and score were totally 2007. Accompanied by a soundtrack of modern-day pop and indie hits, featuring Regina Spektor, the fairies pranced...
Summer preview: Eclectic lineups heat up Chicagoland
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / June 1, 2007
Those looking forward to summer in the Windy City have many things to anticipate—sunshine, humidity, lakefront lounging—but among the best occurrences in Chicago this summer are two of the most popular music festivals to hit the Midwest. Pitchfork and Lollapalooza may not have the jam band-–friendly freedom of Bonnaroo or the hip starlets of Coachella, but they have the benefit of flat Chicago fields and lots of sweaty attendees who travel here from across the land. Pitchfork hits first, on the weekend of July 13–15, in Union Park. The festival has expanded rapidly since its inauguration three summers ago, catching...
UT Measures up with high themes and lewd laughs
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / June 1, 2007
Measure for Measure is a problem play. It has been named so because of the difficulty in classifying it as either a comedy or a tragedy, but there are plenty of problems within the play—most famously the ending, which is disconcerting at best. One reason that UT’s production is successful is that it embraces the problems of the play rather than trying to hide them. It aims to highlight the questionable and unsatisfying events and characters and force the audience to think about their implications. The play begins with Vincentio, the duke of Vienna, played by first-year Dan Wiedenhaupt, announcing...
The end is near for wizard series, but not its magic
By Michelle Welch / June 1, 2007
Scholastic has ordered a printing of 12-million copies of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows for the U.S. alone. Bookstores across the globe will host midnight release parties; Barnes and Noble stores have welcomed as many as 1,200 people to each of these late-night celebrations. British bookstore Waterstones is setting up a helpline. What do these facts indicate? To the well informed Harry Potter fan, they mean an end is approaching. And for some (like me), its arrival is hitting harder than a rogue bludger to the arm. I was in sixth grade when a Scholastic book order form was...
The Gadabout—June 1, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / June 1, 2007
From thin crust to thick crust, from tomato slices and basil leaves to gloppy street-corner sauce and cheese, every kind of pizza commands its own undying breed of loyal supporters. Chicago, the origin of deep-dish pizza and its stuffed sibling, has traditionally been a difficult place for lovers of the foreign New York or Neopolitan varieties to find a pizza sanctuary. With the addition of Coal Fire Pizza to the Grand Avenue neighborhood, however, U of C flat-crust followers can find themselves a home fewer than 45 minutes away from campus. Only three weeks old, Coal Fire Pizza is so...
Shortcuts—Maroon 5’s It Won’t Be Soon Before Long
By Emale Gray / June 1, 2007
During Stevie Wonder’s hiatus, the world was in need of a soulful voice that could deliver songs of amour pleasingly coupled with synthesized rock and Motown grooves. Maroon 5 stepped up to the plate and hit home run after home run with their singles “Harder to Breathe,” “This Love,” and “She Will Be Loved,” which were geared with overtly sexual lyrics, passionate guitars, and a lead singer who can put the funk on any note that spills out of his mouth. Half a decade later, the quintet is ready to grace the world with their version of pop-rock in the...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—June 1, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / June 1, 2007
Though finals week may be dominating your life, here’s a list of events to help you get out and see the best of Chicago summers before the quarter finally ends. Friday / June 1 The campus’ classical music scene culminates this weekend with The Cathy Heifetz Memorial Concert, a collaboration of USO, University Chorus, and Motet Choir. The concert will feature five vocal soloists in addition to the full U of C orchestra and will feature Hindemith, Schumann, Whitacre, and Schubert. (Mandel Hall, 8 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m. Saturday, $5 for students) If you want to get in the mood...
Chicago favorite Robin Thicke raises the temperature on the North Side
By Emale Gray / June 1, 2007
What would the South Side of Chicago be without Robin Thicke? Maybe that’s a bit dramatic, but since his song “Lost Without U” hit the airwaves of WGCI, the South Side has never been the same. One can hear the song blasting in cars on a daily basis, as well as other endearing tunes from The Evolution of Robin Thicke. For that reason, Thicke makes almost monthly performances in Chicago, filling up each and every venue. A fellow concertgoer stated before the concert began that she only came to hear the single “Lost Without U,” dismissing interest in any other...
Third time around, Pirates strikes only fool’s gold
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 25, 2007
For all the movies I’ve covered for the Maroon, I’ve never felt uneasier walking into the theater than I was for Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End. As a critic whose job it is to tell people whether or not they should see a movie, it’s very disheartening to realize that no matter what you say, the movie you’re reviewing will have made $50 million before anyone even reads your review. Such is the state of the Hollywood blockbuster, where, as Louis Menand stated in The New Yorker in 2005, “By the time we’ve all seen that it sucked,...
Workshop Week reveals world of wackjobs through character-driven plays
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / May 25, 2007
Workshop plays at UT are not selected for how they interact with each other or fit into a cohesive performance. However, one cannot help but compare three plays with one another if they are presented together on the same night. And there is one glaring similarity among all three of the Ninth Week Workshop plays: They all focus on people who seem completely insane. The first and wildest of the three plays is ’Dentity Crisis, written by Christopher Durang and directed by first-year Sarah Pickering. The play focuses on a girl, played by second-year Davida Bantz-Leguard, who is going through...
Hitchens’s newest diatribe is far from Great
By David Smith / May 25, 2007
“Why [should] he that has nothing to write…desire to be a writer?” Samuel Johnson once asked in his review of a book that endeavored to prove the existence of God. Though Johnson was an ardent Christian, he sensed that the book’s likely audience would already consist of theists who needed no special efforts at conversion, and that the book lacked a credible occasion for being. The exact same question may be asked about the new book by Christopher Hitchens, God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything. The only difference is, of course, that the choir Hitchens preaches to consists...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—May 25, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 25, 2007
Friday/ May 25 New campus literary magazines have popped up like flies in recent years (did we mention the new issue of Vita is coming out soon?), and Friday brings the release of two. First, during the day, Hallowed Grounds hosts the release of 1000 Typewriters. Then, in the evening, new zine Sliced Bread has its own release party in the same place. (1000 Typewriters: Hallowed Grounds, 9 a.m.–5 p.m., free; Sliced Bread: Hallowed Grounds, 7 p.m., free) It’s Workshop Week at UT, as student theater directors show off their skills in scaled-back productions. This quarter features plays by Chekhov,...
Dancers Change for the better, but spring show stagnates from lack of variety
By Emale Gray / May 22, 2007
As the Rhythmic Bodies in Motion (RBIM) website states, “Life is a stage…dance,” and that has been the group’s mission since its inception in 2004—to inspire students to choreograph, design costumes, and, of course, dance. Furthermore, the organization drags dancers away from the style of dance most comfortable to them and drops them in unfamiliar territory, where they must fend and create new identities for themselves. Change Is Gonna Come was the visual culmination of the labors of each member of this dance company. “Each member started out at a different level of dance at the beginning,” third-year RBIM advertising...
Shortcut—The National’s Boxer
By Oliver Mosier / May 22, 2007
Success isn’t for everyone. Sure, most people want to achieve it, yet, given the chance, not all people possess that indefinable characteristic of sustainability. In a few years, Britney Spears went from the cover of Rolling Stone to the target demographic of Trailer Park Quarterly. Holding onto fame and success just isn’t that easy. The newest album from The National, though, hints at their ability to retain success. 2005’s Alligator was a superb album that launched the band into the stratosphere. Boxer demonstrates that the band belongs in the company of the musical elites with whom it was placed two...
In Case You Missed It—May 22, 2007
By Brian White / May 22, 2007
Nicholas Cage just can’t catch a break. For every Adaptation, he makes at least five Wicker Mans. For every good note he hits in a movie, he’ll have a hundred horribly botched lines. He’s a flute that plays two notes: good guy and bad guy. He can’t really play anything in between. That said, it’s very hard for me to hate Cage. There are a few movies—not many, but they do exist—where he somehow pulls this wonderful ability to connect with the audience out of god knows where. When Cage is put into a situation where he can play the...
Roots groovy, Spoon gloomy at Summer Breeze
By Supriya Sinhababu / May 22, 2007
The Roots beat Spoon. Whether the latter were owned by the former or were within sight of first place is difficult to pontificate on with any shred of objectivity. Spoon were severely outnumbered—11 to 4 if you count The Roots’ brass band and special guest Lupe Fiasco—and outgunned: If you were to place them side by side, there’s no way the average shoe-gazing guitarist could even begin to compete with a dancing tuba player. Aside from such disparities in man- and firepower, the Major Activities Board (MAB) Summer Breeze show in Hutch Courtyard last Saturday left me with the feeling...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—May 18, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 22, 2007
Friday/ May 18 One of the centerpieces of FOTA week is a collaborative UT/FOTA project appropriately titled Heads You Lose. A joint product of the efforts of fourth-years is yet another FOTA puppet show event, featuring the perspective of decapitated puppet heads. It’s one of UT’s more offbeat shows of the year, but also one of its most highly anticipated. (Reynolds Club First Floor Theater, 7 p.m. & 9:30 p.m., $6) If you want another approach to theater, check out wander/standing. UT put on the show last fall, and now FOTA is working on a mixed-media collaborative project. This is...
Morrissey mopes to fans’ content
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 18, 2007
Ever since I started acquiring a relatively sizable body of musical knowledge, I have detected very few noticeable patterns in my taste. One pattern that’s fairly consistent, however, is that when a male singer poses for a photo op adjusting his tie and looking ponderously at the camera, I’m generally going to want to punch him in the face. The one glaring exception to this rule is Morrissey, the mother of all mopers (I use the feminine intentionally). While the former Smiths frontman became the blueprint for other musical prettyboys like Ryan Adams, Rufus Wainwright, and Sufjan Stevens, I somehow...
UBallet joins forces with Hubbard Street
By Jessica Hester / May 18, 2007
In their two annual performances, the ballerinas of the University Ballet (UBallet) manage to both appease classical ballet purists and dance dilettantes who don’t know the difference between a frappé and a frappuccino. In February, UBallet staged a full-length production of Marcus Petipa’s classical ballet The Sleeping Beauty. Complete with pantomime acting and yards of tulle, Sleeping Beauty was a showcase of technical precision and refined artistry. Similar classicism is also present in UBallet’s upcoming spring show, in which dancers will be performing excerpts from the oft-neglected classic Esmerelda. In addition to these classical pieces, the company will be performing...
Discovering the treasures of the Chicago Jazz Archive
By Eric Benson / May 18, 2007
“There are things in there that only have been rumored to exist,” a record collector once told Deborah Gillaspie, the curator of the University’s Chicago Jazz Archive. After peering into the archive’s thicket of 10-inch LPs and dusty sheet music and listening to its scratchy recordings and oral histories, it’s easy to imagine a cache of unearthed treasures lying in its undocumented depths. The Chicago Jazz Archive was started in 1976 by several members of the Visiting Committee for Music, enthusiasts of early Chicago jazz who wanted to see that fading era preserved for posterity and research. Since then, the...
Heads roll in script, audience rolls in aisles
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / May 18, 2007
The various stories of famously decapitated heads are a strikingly imaginative premise for a theatrical production. Heads You Lose was written collaboratively by students and features many notable decapitations ranging from that of John the Baptist to that of Hitoshi Nikaidoh, who got his head trapped in an elevator door. The inspiration for each incident is historical, whether or not the details are exact. “The more we looked into it, the more we realized that decapitation is particularly interesting because of the victim’s knowledge of impending death,” explained director Hannah Kushnick, a fourth-year. “The head is in some ways dead,...
Shortcuts—Wilco’s Sky Blue Sky
By Oliver Mosier / May 18, 2007
Change is good. For musicians, change and experimentation are not only good but also necessary. Jeff Tweedy has never been fully satisfied with his previous work. And why should he be? All great artists sustain their careers by exploring different creative avenues. On Sky Blue Sky, the latest release from Wilco, the band makes some nice sounds, breaking new ground without traveling down the road already taken. Sky Blue Sky lacks both the innovative sound of Yankee Hotel Foxtrot and the experimentation of A Ghost is Born. While the album is for the most part a solid and enjoyable listen,...
Shortcuts—Linkin Park’s Minutes to Midnight
By Emale Gray / May 18, 2007
Before the turn of the century, rock and hip-hop occupied opposite sides of the train tracks. Both genres established their own faithful communities, rarely allowing their loyal citizens to even peer into their estranged neighbors’ yards. Even though curiosity may have killed the cat, in a hybrid emerged of members of both communities, led by a group called Linkin Park. Embracing the unyielding nature of guitars-and-bass rock and the confidence and brusqueness of hip-hop, specifically rap, Linkin Park made their debut with singles “Crawling” and “In the End,” demonstrating the ease with which Mike Shinoda laced his lyrical raps with...
The Gadabout—May 18, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / May 18, 2007
Costa Rica is built on a rich mixture of Mesoamerican and South American history tied together with relaxing Pacific waters and leafy jungles. The country’s cuisine embodies this mezcla perfectly, combining elements of Spanish, South American, and Caribbean cooking into a leisurely blend founded on plantains, rice, and beans. One of Chicago’s only Costa Rican restaurants, Irazu, makes a strong attempt to adapt the food and atmosphere of its home country to the hustle of a major American city. However, our experience fell short not with its food, but because of its stomach-breaking waiting times. In sharp contrast to the...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—May 18, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 18, 2007
Friday/ May 18 One of the centerpieces of FOTA week is a collaborative UT/FOTA project appropriately titled Heads You Lose. A joint product of the efforts of fourth-years is yet another FOTA puppet show event, featuring the perspective of decapitated puppet heads. It’s one of UT’s more offbeat shows of the year, but also one of its most highly anticipated. (Reynolds Club First Floor Theater, 7 p.m. & 9:30 p.m., $6) If you want another approach to theater, check out wander/standing. UT put on the show last fall, and now FOTA is working on a mixed-media collaborative project. This is...
FOTA launch party focuses on fashion
By Emale Gray / May 15, 2007
Normally, Hutch Courtyard is a barren desert, only receiving attention when some daring student becomes bored enough to play in the sterile fountain. Nevertheless, last Friday, May 11, it was like watching the aftermath of an accident with a semi on the expressway:The traffic slowing almost to a halt as people watched the construction of a massive tent that consumed the once-infertile fountain along with the rest of the courtyard. The unfamiliar wore expressions of wonder and even possible irritation that this obstruction was being built in the midst of their normal walking paths; however, others grinned in excitement for...
Court’s production of Arcadia predestined for success
By Joe Katz / May 15, 2007
The moment the lights came up for intermission, my friend and I began to gush. As soon as we hit a pause in our effusive praise, she shook her head in wonder: “I never liked Stoppard until tonight.” It couldn’t be an uncommon reaction to Arcadia. The script takes the high-concept, intellectual content Tom Stoppard is known for and mixes it with a mob of rich, engaging characters and a plot that’s involving despite its not really being the point. More than that, it’s a play practically written for U of C students—putting mathematical theory, philosophy, the travails of academics,...
Looptopia letdown due to lack of late-night activities
By Supriya Sinhababu / May 15, 2007
“Go Looptopia!” was the cry of many a college student indulging in either alcohol or mockery during the wee hours of Chicago’s first, and possibly last, “White Night.” The idea of a city-wide dawn-to-dusk celebration including various cultural institutions is a universally appealing idea. This year, a group of businesses and cultural organizations in the Loop, the Chicago Loop Alliance (CLA), decided to put the concept in motion for the first time in the United States. In its execution, however, Looptopia was quite a few paces away from the blowout success its organizers hoped it would be. Whether the event...
Moda and the Wrens give fashion an atomic flair
By Jessica Hester / May 15, 2007
Moda and the Renaissance Society joined artistic forces last Thursday to deliver Atomic Fashion, a punk-rock fashion showcase of student designs that stomped and strutted its way to couture glory. Atomic Fashion transformed the Renaissance Society’s home on the fourth floor of Cobb into a runway space designed around the featured art exhibit, Katharina Grosse’s Atoms Inside Balloons. As student models wove their way around the enormous aluminum, canvas, and paper balloons, I forgot that the exhibit and the fashion show were not originally designed to complement each other. Elaborate lighting was not needed because Grosse’s installation—site-specific spray-paint work applied...
In Case You Missed It—May 15, 2007
By Brian White / May 15, 2007
We all have that relative. You know, the uncle who gets drunk at the family Christmas party and makes lewd comments about your aunt. The annoying nephew whom you’re positive is going to grow up and become a sociopath. The cousin who gets knocked up at age 16 and comes to family gatherings with her chain-smoking boyfriend Earl. These people have many flaws, but despite all their mistakes they are still family, and you’re forced to love them. On some level, too, they are hilarious in their depravity, and their almost purposeful mockery of social norms eventually makes you feel...
Swedish PB&J a delicious indie-pop treat
By Thomas Hauner / May 11, 2007
I never thought it would happen like this. There I was, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with hipsters of every breed and demographic, as excited, if not more, than all of them for The Empty Bottle’s headlining act Tuesday night. The commotion and hype generated by the band in question required the venue to add an earlier show, one that was equally difficult to score tickets to. It seems like people everywhere have been taking part in the growing excitement over rising Swedish indie-pop trio Peter Bjorn and John. That’s right, no commas. And not only do they share an eye for self-promotion—their...
Murakami startles with Dark themes
By Seth Satterlee / May 11, 2007
In his latest novel, After Dark, Japanese novelist Haruki Murakami delivers a risky split from his normal style. But don’t worry—it isn’t a complete turnaround, just a refreshing break. Diabolical businessmen, inexplicable other worlds, and jazz enthusiasts still litter the pages. From the first page, Murakami delves into the character of his third- person narrator as if he were manning the camera of a film. He places the readers in the story with the constant use of “we” in describing scenes—we are “a high-flying night bird” or “a midair camera”; it’s as if “we” are on a ride, sitting right...
Witty and passionate UT play is hardly a Private affair
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / May 11, 2007
“Love is no use unless it’s wise and kind and undramatic.” From the first scene of Private Lives by Noel Coward, the stage is set to be torn apart. Elyot Chase (played by second-year Augie Praley) and his wife Sibyl (fourth-year Sally Hall) are on their honeymoon, and the play opens with them exchanging overly cute dialogue on their balcony. Elyot tells of his longing for a quiet, uneventful marriage, but in truth, he seems a little put off by his wife’s complete lack of depth. The real trouble begins, however, when Sibyl broaches the subject of Elyot’s ex-wife, Amanda...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—May 11, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 11, 2007
Friday/ May 11 Restrictions by ORCSA will give this year’s Party on the Quads a different feel, as the party switches from Scav team-organized alcohol distribution to ID-checking, Pub-bought alcohol. However, that won’t stop Scavvers from showing up inebriated or this year’s party themes from being ridiculous—and amazing. (Social Science Quad, 10 p.m., free) If you’re looking for a way to avoid Scav, look no further than the location of all the trouble from last year’s party. Cobb and the Renaissance Society host the U of C Dancers, who have put together an impressive show: Over Coffee. Featuring nine original...
Shortcuts—Björk’s Volta
By Emale Gray / May 11, 2007
Weirdness is what usually comes to mind when thinking of Björk, especially for those who have not yet taken the time to appreciate her creative genius. Even after sifting through her musical catalogue, experimental is the best word one can use to illustrate the unpredictability that is Björk. So it shouldn’t come as much of a surprise that Björk chose mainstream music’s most fruitful producer to help lay down fertilizer that will ensure the proper growth and spread of her greatest creation—Volta. As feet plow the damp earth, tribal drums commence, proclaiming the arrival of the “Earth Intruders” while Timbaland...
Mexican ex-metalheads rock the Vic
By Salom Teshale / May 8, 2007
I should start off by saying that I know very little about playing the guitar, so I will use no technical terms in this review. Most of my descriptions of Rodrigo y Gabriela will consist of terms like “sweet” and “totally awesome.” Rodrigo y Gabriela are old bandmates from Mexico City, veterans of the same thrash-metal group. After playing acoustic covers of such traditional classics as “Angel of Death” for tourists in hotels, they decided to migrate to Ireland and try their luck there. Busking in Dublin and around Europe for a few years eventually got them a record deal,...
After-school acrobatics give Uptown kids a leg up
By William Chyr / May 8, 2007
Before anybody cracks open a book at the Alternatives Community Center after-school tutoring program, the students from Uptown who gather there three days a week have to learn to juggle, stilt-walk, unicycle, swing from a trapeze, and act like a clown. “What’s going on here?” you’re probably wondering. “Are these kids supposed to be learning circus skills or academic skills?” The answer is both. Homework & Circuswork, as this after-school program is called, is one of the many programs run by CircEsteem, an organization that teaches kids circus skills as a way to help them build their self-esteem. Founded six...
Starlight Mints stay solid with borrowed guitars
By Brenton Wright / May 8, 2007
The usual horde of patrons was absent from Abbey Pub Thursday night, as Thax Douglas delivered another moving prelude to what would be a solid night of music. The opener, Canasta, describe themselves as a standard rock setup augmented by piano, violin, keyboard, and trombone to help them craft a more ambitious strain of majestic, ultra-melodic, orchestral pop. They succeed largely because of their lead vocalist’s cheesy, over-polished tone. In his solo act, the Starlight Mints’ Ryan Lindsey sports an under-polished, emo-derivative amalgamation of canned drum-tones, keyboards, and minor key progressions accompanied by typical nasal death-wish vocals producing an altogether...
Shortcut—Elliott Smith’s New Moon
By Dmitri Leybman / May 8, 2007
In 2003, Elliott Smith died of yet undetermined causes. His songs often placed his quiet, gentle voice beside melodies that seemed to come effortlessly to him. Elliott’s new album New Moon is a two-CD collection of rarities and covers recorded from 1994 to 1996 that reveal the rawness of Smith’s foray into music as well as the acquisition of a soft, lo-fi style—one that matched perfectly with his need to describe and express his difficult and painful life. Posthumous collections of left-over material are expected to offer something revelatory for the devoted listener, the chance to see the musician’s maturation...
Shortcut—Dinosaur Jr.’s Beyond
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 8, 2007
Back in 1987, lead guitar was a touchy subject in the American underground. Previously, most skilled punk guitarists played well in spite of their bands’ overall attitude. J Mascis of Dinosaur Jr. played well because of it. After hardcore had exhausted the loud/fast mantra, Mascis infused Neil Young–style hard rock into the D.I.Y. aesthetic. While punks should have hated this, it was hard for your jaw not to drop when Mascis picked up a guitar. Four years later, Pearl Jam and Nirvana would take over the airwaves with a similar combination of big guitars and punk aesthetics. Mascis for the...
In Case You Missed It—May 8, 2007
By Brian White / May 8, 2007
I really dislike Richard Linklater, and I really dislike him because of two words: Waking Life. Never has there been a more overdone “let’s rage at society because it kind of annoys us how life isn’t filled with millions of soul-wrenching cathartic experiences and relationships” pile of nothingness. It wouldn’t be so bad if friends of mine didn’t still talk about how “deep and meaningful” it was and how revolutionary its “rotoscope-amazingness” was. This movie consists of topical discussions about philosophies that are too deep to cover in two-and-a-half hours, combined with the same nonsense that wacky kid from your...
Spidey fends off vicious villains, but not bad romance
By David Smith / May 4, 2007
Spider-Man 3 is a movie that suffers, unfortunately, under the weight of its predecessors. At the end of 3, we can begin to see how the Spider-Man series as a whole hangs together, and in comparison with the first two installments, 3 will probably be seen as the point at which the franchise begins to show its age. All of this is not to say that Spider-Man 3 is terrible or that you shouldn’t see it. I mean, the marketing blitz alone ensures that you probably can’t even avoid it. It is rollicking-good summer entertainment, and hey, what can I...
Goodman dives into Complex psychology with leading men Oedipus and Freud
By Jessica Hester / May 4, 2007
Sophocles’s most famous play wasn’t enough for director Frank Galati. In his adaptation of Sophocles’s Oedipus Rex for the Goodman Theatre, Galati took some significant artistic liberties. Ultimately, Galati’s adaptation becomes a brilliant play in and of itself. Oedipus Complex is a psychological drama–cum–social critique that fuses Sophocles’s tragedy with a certain Viennese doctor’s controversial claims bearing its name. The man who killed his father and married his mother is not the star of Galati’s play—the leading man in Galati’s version is Sigmund Freud, the enigmatic father of psychoanalytic theory. Galati puts the Oedipus story in dialogue with Freud’s proposal...
The Gadabout—May 4, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / May 4, 2007
Chicago. The city that re-invented the pizza and created Italian beef. The land of Al Capone and the Chicago outfit of the Mafia. The home of the National Italian-American Sports Hall of Fame. Only here could you find a place like Sabatino’s. In its own way, this Irving Park Italian restaurant—a visible favorite for generations of Italian families and lovers—somehow exudes a class that only old Chicago could muster. Past the dark, smoky wooden bar and through the electric-candlelit rooms, the burgundy carpets, floral upholstering of the chairs, and brown vinyl booths commingle to form a style reminiscent of a...
Shortcuts—Feist’s The Reminder
By Dmitri Leybman / May 4, 2007
Feist’s reputation has up until now largely rested on 2004’s Let It Die, a short 11-track disc that introduced audiences to the singer’s soft and luxurious voice. That album’s eclectic set of songs reflected Feist’s many influences from jazz, bossa-nova, folk, and indie rock. Her popularity also grew when “Mushaboom,” one of the album’s best tracks, was incorporated into a Lacoste perfume ad, introducing her to an even wider audience. The Reminder, Feist’s newest album, contains many beautiful, aching ballads enhanced by her evocative delivery. Many of the tracks are pure gems, glimmering with subtle artistic touches conveyed by her...
Voices STD (Stuff To Do)—May 4, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 4, 2007
Friday/ May 4 For those looking for a rite of passage into the Chicago intelligentsia, head to the Museum of Contemporary Art for its monthly First Fridays event. It’s not every happy hour that features Wolfgang Puck catering, live DJs, and the latest art from an up-and-coming Chicago artist. In fact, it’s the only place in the world where you’ll find an iMac G5 digital dating bar (not even the MacLab offers that). If that’s not enough, there are multiple after-parties for your perusal. (Museum of Contemporary Art, 6 p.m., 21+, $10) Michael Chabon would be proud of the Windy...
HPAC celebrates anniversary in style
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / May 1, 2007
The Hyde Park Art Center (HPAC) moved to its swanky new location on East 50th Street and South Cornell Avenue a year ago and this weekend celebrated its first anniversary with a 24-hour event chock-full of art openings, performances, and lots of smiling—though somewhat tired—faces. The day-and-night-long celebration (from noon on Saturday to noon on Sunday) marked a step back from last year’s inaugural event, which featured an entire weekend of partying in Hyde Park. But this weekend was full of both high art and fun, and it was highly entertaining. It emphasized the fact that HPAC is a force...
Anne Frank revival innovative and evocative
By Jessica Hester / May 1, 2007
The union seemed doomed to fail. Lincoln Park’s Steppenwolf Theatre Company is renowned for its emphasis on promoting new talent and its creative and insightful updating of canonical drama. It doesn’t get more canonical than The Diary of Anne Frank, the first theatrical adaptation of which received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1956. Today, more than half a century after the first dramatic rendition of her diary, Anne endures as an iconic literary voice, and the haunting play continues to captivate theatergoers. Integrating this play into Steppenwolf’s spring repertory posed both practical and ethical questions: Can this play, necessarily...
Renaissance society exhibit an enveloping experience
By Melanie Treuhaft / May 1, 2007
Though I was initially overwhelmed by the chaos of colors and spheres clustered on the ceiling of the fourth floor of Cobb, eventually I was overtaken by the realization that I was not simply a spectator, but was inside of Katharina Grosse’s exhibit. Atoms Inside Balloons extends beyond most installations. It encompasses its observers by reaching above their heads covering the ceiling and below their feet on the tiled floor. Grosse used a compressed air spray gun and acrylic paint to cover the walls, ceiling, and floor of the exhibit, creating an exciting and almost unsettling mesh of colors that...
Young guns can’t measure up to veteran punk acts
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 1, 2007
Back in the heyday of alternative rock, Nirvana described its music as “the Knack and the Bay City Rollers being molested by Black Flag and Black Sabbath.” That particular approach—jerky, catchy melodies backed by an aggressive, macho attitude—has been the model of alternative rock for the past 20-odd years. Last Friday at the House of Blues, four bands performed a show that could be seen as a case study of this model. The set alternated younger, crappier bands, with older, outstanding bands. The Effigies and Naked Raygun, two bands that hail from Chicago’s punk scene, highlighted an excellent, if inconsistent,...
In Case You Missed It—May 1, 2007
By Brian White / May 1, 2007
I’d like to devote this week to two recent comedies that have slipped under the radar over the past few weeks, despite being some of the funniest films to hit the screen in a long time. Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film For Theaters This movie is essentially an hour-and-a-half-long episode of the show Aqua Teen Hunger Force, which airs on Adult Swim. If you have never seen the show, I don’t really know how to describe it. It stars three anthropomorphic food items: a giant milk shake, a floating order of fries, and a wad of meat. They...
Joffrey pays tribute to co-founder in spring showcase
By Jessica Hester / April 27, 2007
It was drizzling Wednesday evening as the Joffrey Ballet premiered its spring repertory, Light Rain, in Roosevelt University’s beautiful Auditorium Theater. The light rain outside did not deter the opening- night crowd, however, and the near-capacity audience seemed to relish the definitive Joffrey style—a fusion of classical ballet technique and daring contemporary choreography. This program was one of the most exciting compilations of the company’s work and a true exhibition of the stunning technical prowess that merits the Joffrey’s reputation as one of the premier ballet companies in the world. The first piece was a last-minute addition to the program:...
Finger Eleven drops Chicago fanbase into fire pit of frenetic rock at the Riviera
By Emale Gray / April 27, 2007
Hosting performances by famed musicians is the Riviera Theater’s métier; hence, those in attendance expect to experience an unequivocal high specific to that particular occasion. For bands that have not garnered the notoriety of Fiona Apple or John Legend, it can be intimidating to perform in this venue. However, from the moment that Finger Eleven’s LSD–laced guitars struck their first chords, there was no denying that they had claimed the Riviera Theater’s audience for the night. Even the NASA countdown to liftoff doesn’t bear as much urgency as that announcing the arrival and introduction of “Eleven—Finger Eleven.” As the flashing...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—April 27, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 27, 2007
Friday/ April 27 The Don Imus scandal has inevitably led some to question the portrayal of sexuality and race in hip-hop. The recent controversy adds extra relevance to Hip-Hop: Beats and Rhymes, an hour-long documentary screening at Doc. The special event will feature a panel discussion with professors and authors from the University and Columbia College about the effects of rap lyrics, in an honest, open manner. (Max Palevsky Cinema, 7 p.m., $5) Some of the giants of Chicago alternative rock headline an all-star performance Friday, featuring some of the best rock bands Chicago has to offer. Naked Raygun, a...
Lightman’s magnetic personality matches her music
By Loretta Nuccio / April 27, 2007
Toby Lightman has a voice that is as soulful as Janis Joplin, yet smooth and sweet and perfect for her bluesy rock style. If you have not gotten her new album, Bird on a Wire, at least get to her website and give it a listen. After this interview I was as sold on the humble singer’s humble and honest personality as her equally charismatic music. CM: Much of your musical career has been spent on the road. I don’t need to read you the list, but I know you’ve toured with Rob Thomas, Jewel, Gavin DeGraw, Train, Prince, etc....
OLAS busts some moves at Mandel
By Supriya Sinhababu / April 24, 2007
“I’m on Latina time,” the character Reina said, explaining her tardiness during Saturday’s Entre el Amor y el Dinero: Between Love and Money. Presented by the Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS), the show itself seemed to be running on Latina time—the performance started 20 minutes late. This did nothing to dampen the enthusiasm of the 300-odd students who packed Mandel Hall after polishing off the entire catered dinner of tortillas and single-serve flan. OLAS introduced Entre el Amor y el Dinero as a telenovela. Fortunately, it wasn’t. The audience member who yelled “Sabado Gigante!” as the curtain opened told...
Ambitious Parks premiere caps off New Work Week
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / April 24, 2007
The scene on Saturday was a slightly strange one, with a crowd of theatergoers lounging on the twisted stairs that lead up to the Francis X. Kinahan Third Floor Theater. The line before the doors opened at 6:45 p.m. was for those who anticipated the world premiere of seven new plays by noted dramatist Suzan-Lori Parks. The weather was beautifully temperate, and the signs taped around the Reynolds Club read, “365 Days/365 Plays: Upstairs.” It was the culmination of University Theater’s (UT) New Work Week, a six-day festival of staged readings of original pieces, including several premieres of student-written work....
Martha Graham explores sculptural side of dance
By Jessica Hester / April 24, 2007
The Martha Graham Dance Company’s sold-out 80th anniversary show at the Museum of Contemporary Art last Thursday converted me from a classical ballet purist to a full-fledged fan of contemporary dance. Graham’s trademark sharp, syncopated movements are the antithesis of classical ballet, but they left me whistling and clapping for more. Graham’s choreographic genius and the dancers’ extraordinary technical feats set the stage on fire and had me dancing in my seat and all the way home. This performance is a marriage of Graham’s choreography with the sculpture of Isamu Noguchi. Entitled Sculpting Space, the program illustrates the union of...
Brits bring brutally fun satirical rock to Subterranean
By Salom Teshale / April 24, 2007
“Don’t listen to people in bands! They’re drunk; they don’t know what they’re doing!” Eddie Argos, lead singer of Art Brut, had just finished a minute-long digression about his old girlfriend right in the middle of singing “Emily Kane.” He pointed a finger at the crowd to emphasize his message; the crowd roared back in joy and sang along with him when the band began playing once more. Such is the power of Art Brut, a band that is clearly a parody of a rock band and that welcomes everyone in on the joke—from the names (Jasper Future, Freddy Feedback)...
The Gadabout—April 24, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / April 24, 2007
In Japanese history, “Meiji” refers to the “enlightened era” that introduced Japan as a new world power. In the world of Chicago restaurants, it refers to the “enlightened sushi” that draws diners in to sample Japanese cuisine. True to West Loop trendiness, Meiji emanates an aura best described as stylish Zen. The softly lit, white-covered tables, backed by black, cushioned booths and straight bamboo shafts against the walls are arrayed in parallel rows on the sides of the polished hardwood floor. Each place setting comprises two concentric square plates and chopsticks folded in a rectangular napkin. The arrangement, while claustrophobic...
Brother Ali’s rap blends bad-ass beats and conscience
By Thomas Hauner / April 24, 2007
Albino, overweight, and legally blind. No, this is not the profile of an ill-fated lab rat, but the self-deprecating self-description of underground rapper Brother Ali. Born Jason Newman, Ali relocated to Minneapolis at 15, became a Muslim, and surrounded himself with the flourishing hip-hop culture that culminated in the new label Rhymesayers Entertainment. With the creative and mental support of Atmosphere front-man Slug and the production of Rhymesayers in-house producer Ant (Anthony Davis), Ali has made himself known. Brother Ali’s tour in support of his April 10 release The Undisputed Truth made its stop Saturday night at Subterranean to a...
In Case You Missed It—April 24, 2007
By Brian White / April 24, 2007
When I tell people I’m from Indiana, I usually get two responses. First, they make some totally wacky comment about corn. But, just to set the record straight before I begin, we grow more soy than we do corn, so you can stop thinking you’re so clever for asking about our crops. After that, they usually ask me if I like modern country music. I don’t. It is a horrible, talentless genre full of hacks who wave American flags and somehow get to lay claim to American culture. Kenny Chesney is what you get when you slap a cowboy hat...
Classic radio show embraces medium makeover
By Oliver Mosier / April 24, 2007
Radio and television are two different media, sometimes borrowing from each other, but occupying distinct cultural niches. This American Life is an hour-long radio program produced by Chicago Public Radio on WBEZ 91.5 FM. Ira Glass hosts the show, which delves into eccentric realms of the nation in an attempt to capture a piece of Americana. Airing on Showtime for the first time on March 22, This American Life took on a new form: TV. The radio program, on the air since 1995, will continue to run. However, Glass will now host 30-minute episodes on Showtime. The TV program is...
Hip-hop meets activism in odd anti-Bush partnership
By Jessica Hester / April 20, 2007
Break-dancers, spoken-word artists, and musicians tore up the International House stage on Tuesday evening to the rhythm of a manifesto: “Make Hip-Hop, Not War!” The event marked the Chicago stop on a nationwide tour that fuses hip-hop and political activism. Two organizations with markedly different agendas—The World Can’t Wait and Hip-Hop Caucus—have joined forces to “transform protest as usual into total social upheaval,” in the words of World Can’t Wait steering committee member Samantha Hamlin. According to Hamlin, the tour is an attempt to “raise consciousness and reach young people through music” for the ultimate purpose of demanding “the impeachment...
Vandermark’s driving force keeps Powerhouse Sound in the groove
By Eric Benson / April 20, 2007
Chicago saxophonist Ken Vandermark is the great populist of avant-garde jazz. When most listeners think of the diverse music grouped under the avant-garde umbrella, grating dissonance, atonal improvisations, and general confusion come to mind. Vandermark’s music has always been of a different breed—exuberant, playful, groove-based—anchoring his groups in the familiar shoals of hard-bop, funk, and R&B. Vandermark’s generous populism has found a new outlet with Powerhouse Sound, a rambunctious band featuring Vandermark, guitarist Jeff Parker, bassist Nate McBride, and drummer John Herndon. On Wednesday night, the group took the stage at The Hideout for the release party of their recently...
Shortcuts—Lumidee’s Unexpected
By Emale Gray / April 20, 2007
What do the creators of the “Macarena,” “Who Let the Dogs Out?,” and “Ice Ice Baby” have in common? Besides still claiming royalties from the aforementioned songs, you can probably find these one-hit failures flipping burgers at the local Burger King, earning a dollar more than the average grad student in the same circumstances. One would think that the same fate would befall “Uh Oooh” girl Lumidee; however, she is back with an unexpected treat. Whereas her debut album Almost Famous left her unknown, Unexpected creates a mansion for her in the middle of Mainstream Music Boulevard, specially designed by...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—April 20, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 20, 2007
Friday/ April 20 They’re baaaack. If you’ve been longing for campus improv, Off-Off Campus returns triumphantly this weekend, featuring their newest crop of talent. The 21st Generation takes the spotlight for their first stint as the featured act as they perform a revue of some of their best pieces. It’s incredible to think that a crazy idea spun by a founder of Second City and his students would now be old enough to drink. (University Church, 9 p.m., $4) For a chilling night of theater, you don’t want to miss the opening weekend of the Steppenwolf’s production of The Diary...
Sitar-playing Shankars shine at Symphony Center
By Anjali Verghis / April 17, 2007
“There are so many Indians here,” commented the woman behind me as we pushed through the crowd at Symphony Center to see the sold-out Ravi and Anoushka Shankar concert. She wasn’t wrong, but Indians hardly made up the majority of the audience. In a testament to the Shankars’ success in blending Western motifs with classical Indian music, the crowd was composed of fans of all ages and many different cultures. I definitely detected a Western influence in the first set played by Anoushka Shankar, a flutist, a tabla player, and two tanpura (a drone instrument) players. Ms. Shankar, who was...
Michael Patton’s Peeping Tom unleashes long-awaited pop for the indie crowd
By Thomas Hauner / April 17, 2007
Michael Patton is something of an enigma in alternative music circles. Descriptions like unpredictable, inventive, and even genius have been tossed around. From his antics as the leader of 1980s experimental rock group Faith No More to his highly anticipated “pop” album (in the making since 2002) Peeping Tom, he has always warranted attention and respect. The latter project features eclectic contributors, including Bebel Gilberto, Norah Jones, Kool Keith, Massive Attack, Rahzel, Dub Trio, Odd Nosdam, and Amon Tobin. Rock critic Greg Prato considers Patton to be one of the “most talented singers in rock music.” From his beat-boxing and...
In Case You Missed It—April 17, 2007
By Brian White / April 17, 2007
2046 There are a lot of reasons I can cite for hating The Notebook. It was a melodramatic, predictable, lugubrious movie made for 16-year-old girls. It was a waste of Ryan Gosling, Rachel McAdams, and James Garner’s talent. It was proof that Nicholas Sparks has as much writing ability as a hamster. But my biggest problem with it was that it was just straight up unoriginal. Guy likes girl, girl likes guy, some problem comes between them, their love remains strong, they triumph in the end, roll credits. I know the producers behind The Notebook probably didn’t intend for it...
Alum revisits Boy Culture at U of C
By Matt Zakosek / April 13, 2007
Matthew Rettenmund (A.B.’91) may not have the literary cachet of fellow alumnus Kurt Vonnegut (R.I.P.), but did Vonnegut ever write a “critical assessment of white, gay, male culture”? We think not. As the smash-hit film adaptation of his ’95 novel, Boy Culture, enters its second week at Landmark’s Century Centre Cinema, Rettenmund takes the time to talk with the Maroon about scandal, scholarship, and, of course, sex. Chicago Maroon: How did you choose the U of C for your undergraduate education? Matthew Rettenmund: When choosing colleges, I had a garbage bag full of flyers and brochures. I think I liked...
Classic Albee still powerful, despite star’s absence
By Michelle Welch / April 13, 2007
Edward Albee’s controversial Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is a scathing portrait of heterosexual marriage and its illusory trappings, its relevance just as prominent today as when it debuted in 1962. Now, Bill Irwin and Kathleen Turner star as the bickering, middle-aged couple George and Martha. George is a New England college history professor married to Martha, daughter of the college president and six years George’s senior. Throughout the course of the play, they exchange bitingly sarcastic and vicious verbal attacks in the wee hours of the morning while “entertaining” a younger couple from the college, often instigating attacks on...
23rd Chicago Latino Film Festival lets the dogs out
By Emerald Gao / April 13, 2007
The Chicago Latino Film Festival has been bringing an eclectic mix of Spanish- and Portuguese-language film to the city for nearly a quarter of a century. Each year, festival organizers try to top the previous year’s job, always seeking to provide the best for audiences. The curious filmgoer can access the entire festival schedule online at latinoculturalcenter.org/Filmfest. The opening weekend of this year’s festival covers a lot of territory, from Argentina to Spain, making a lot of stops in between. Along with its annual Opening Night, Spain Night, and Mexico Night events, this year’s program features a five-film tribute to...
Shortcuts—Bright Eyes’s Cassadaga
By Oliver Mosier / April 13, 2007
Cassadaga, the latest album from Bright Eyes, was released on April 10. At times the album is an ambitious country folk–tinged extension of 2005’s I’m Wide Awake It’s Morning. However, such a classification appears premature upon listening to songs like “Make a Plan to Love Me.” The folkie side of Conor Oberst is given a flowery orchestral background. At 27, Oberst is making his claim for the voice of a new generation through politically conscious music. With asinine lyrics like: “For the freedom-fighting simulcast (Victory! A defeat! Victory!)…. Like the polar icecaps centrifuge (Oh Allah! Oh Jesus please!),” that probably...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—April 13, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 13, 2007
Friday/ April 13 In case you didn’t get a taste of the Chicago film fest scene when the International Documentary Festival was at Doc, don’t miss the Chicago Latino Film Festival, which is even bigger and has a longer history. Festivities kick off tonight with a high-priced gala event at the Chicago History Museum, but you can find films across Chicago at Piper’s Alley, Landmark Century, and the Facets Cinematheque. The festival will continue for the next week and a half, so you’ll have plenty of opportunities to see some of Latin America’s best filmmakers in action. Acme and Co....
Obama doc lacks senator’s charisma
By David Smith / April 10, 2007
Senator Obama Goes to Africa, a documentary-in-progress from director Bob Hercules, was screened at the closing ceremony of the Chicago International Documentary Festival (CIDF) at Doc Films on Saturday night. The evening was sponsored by CNN and the Society for Arts. The president of CIDF, Christopher Kamyszew, announced that CNN had agreed to screen the winner of the Grand Prix Feature Film Award on Sunday night. He also said, to audience laughter, “We thank [CNN] for that, because they didn’t always like [the films that won CIDF awards in the past]. Three years ago they told us that the film...
Latest Lethem funny but shallow
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / April 10, 2007
You Don’t Love Me Yet may not be the most important novel that Jonathan Lethem has ever attempted, or the most complex. It is a sarcastic, comic drift through the hipster clichés of an unnamed, unsuccessful rock band in Los Angeles. The band has its share of issues—bandcest, unrequited love, excessive angst, and most importantly, a lack of good songs. Though the hipster drift may be on the surface a romantic one (and that theme will come up again and again throughout the novel), these people are exactly the type your parents do not want you to become. The band...
Massacre a mixed bag of blood, guts, and glory
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 10, 2007
Teatro Vista has taken on a lot of challenges in Massacre (Sing to Your Children). For one, they’ve asked the relatively upscale Goodman crowd to sit through a play that opens with seven cast members covered in blood and brandishing meat cleavers, ice picks, and pitchforks. That doesn’t even begin to hint at the psychological turmoil and ethereal atmosphere the play later takes on. Maybe the half-empty, open-seating Saturday matinée performance can be attributed to those challenges. That said, the production has a lot of strengths. It has a hotshot writer in José Rivera, fresh off an Oscar nomination for...
In Case You Missed It—April 10, 2007
By Brian White / April 10, 2007
V for Vendetta I apologize for doing another comic book, especially another one by Alan Moore. Still, I feel it’s necessary, just because graphic novels are grossly underappreciated, but also because of the recent wave of comic-book movies. This trend sometimes produces very good movies that are a tribute both to themselves and to the comics from which they draw. Spiderman and Batman Begins are both very good examples of this. And sometimes it produces absolute train wrecks. The movie version of V for Vendetta is similar to the comic in many respects. It is set in a near-future London...
Rubber Tit a hands-on experience
By Supriya Sinhababu / April 6, 2007
Like a punctured hot air balloon, it began its performance lying shriveled and orange at the bottom of a modified wooden crate with edges but no sides. With the aid of a portable air blower and the sounds of a jazz saxophone for inspiration, the thing slowly took shape, spiting the efforts of the small Japanese woman who energetically bound the crate at arbitrary intervals with rainbow-colored cord. When the thing grew big enough to chafe at the sides of the crate, the woman abandoned her web-weaving and wrenched the strange object bodily from its confines. Now a little taller...
Vail Film Festival: a celebration of excess
By Eric Benson / April 6, 2007
I lay silently on my back—eyes closed, mouth slightly open—as a tall blond woman massaged moisturizing oils into my face. Next to me, Ben Kolak, erstwhile Fire Escape chairman and Crime Fiction producer, received the very same treatment. Waiting their turns were Will Slocombe, the director of Crime Fiction, and Paul “The Dude” Friedman, an old friend, master skier, and laid-back embodiment of the American West. The site was the hospitality tent of the Vail Film Festival, a four-day celebration of film, skiing, luxury, and corporate sponsorship. (The facials were courtesy of a Japanese cosmetics company hoping to corner the...
First Snow stirs up a flurry but fails to raise a storm
By David M. Smith / April 6, 2007
As I begin this review of First Snow, I’m reminded of the last stanza of a great Dylan song: “I ain’t a-sayin’ you treated me unkind./ You coulda done better, but I don’t mind./ You just kinda wasted my precious time/ but don’t think twice, it’s all right.” That’s kind of how I feel about First Snow. It’s not that it is a bad movie. It’s just not that memorable. I was decently entertained for 97 minutes, but I feel I could have seen or done something more worthwhile with my time. First Snow is a fairly light, by-the-numbers film...
Gadabout—April 6, 2007
By Sheila Rajagopal and Clay Smith / April 6, 2007
Nothing rhymes with Orange; it’s a unique staple among colors, fruits, and Chicago brunch places. Citrus epileptics, beware. As you enter the South Loop restaurant, tangy shades of lime, lemon and clementine coat your surroundings, fraternizing with the aroma of juices squeezed fresh at Orange’s large trademark juice bar. Although the brightness could easily come off as disgustingly cheery, the scene is tempered into something not so much perky as cool. Bizarre, comedic work on the walls by local artists, showcasing smoking snowmen, angry bus drivers, and abstract feathers, meshes well with the violent hair colors of the staff. Regardless...
Shortcuts—Beyoncé’s B’Day [Deluxe Edition]
By Emale Gray / April 6, 2007
On September 4, Kodak was registered as a trademark, Japanese forces surrendered during World War II and the Fourth World Conference on Women opened. However, no event takes precedence over the birth of overachiever Beyoncé Giselle Knowles, bringing forth a holiday more festive than the ball-dropping on New Year’s Eve: B’Day. Tailgating this momentous occasion was the release of a collection of hits with more merit and affluence than any Now That’s What I Call Music! series. So, get out your freakum outfit of choice and prepare for the alpha and omega of all parties. It’s best to pregame to...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—March 30, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 6, 2007
Friday/ April 6 Play ball! Baseball season is back once again, and tonight is University Night as the South Side’s finest, the Chicago White Sox, battle the Minnesota Twins. You can get discounted tickets from Xperience Chicago, and with the Sox contending for another World Series title, every game matters in baseball’s toughest division. You’ll be hard-pressed to find tickets this cheap at any other time this season. (U.S. Cellular Field, 7:11 p.m., $10) You may have missed it while away on spring break, but this weekend is your last chance to see Flyin’ West, the latest show at the...
Rwanda film draws unrealistic picture of Redemption
By Benjamin Rossi / April 3, 2007
First-time filmmaker Felicia Middlebrooks’s self-written and directed documentary Somebody’s Child: The Redemption of Rwanda premiered in Chicago Saturday. The winner of the New York Film Festival’s award for best short documentary, it was the centerpiece of the third annual program of Women in the Audience Supporting Women Artists Now (WITASWAN). The film began to roll amidst a general air of excitement and bonhomie. The event was an opportunity for members of many different women’s organizations to meet and socialize. The first scene is telling. We see, as sinister music plays, discolored stock footage of the genocide. Then the music swells,...
Explosions blow crowd away, but debris of subpar opening acts remains
By Oliver Mosier / April 3, 2007
I would like to preface this article by saying that the two opening acts for Explosions in the Sky at the Metro on March 28 were nothing short of horrendous. The first act, Eluvium, merely played simple repetitive chord progressions in front of an absurdly ponderous projection of birds flying. However, as annoying as Eluvium was, nothing could have prepared me for the next band. Paper Chase went far beyond being comically bad, settling in the realm of the purely offensive. The music actually hurt me, with lyrics an eight-year-old would not even take credit for. The lead guitarist and...
In Case You Missed It—April 3, 2007
By Brian White / April 3, 2007
In a world where video games are increasingly dominated by graphics engines that require a dedicated nuclear reactor to power, I am often left wondering what happened to those simple—yet undeniably awesome—games of my youth. As it turns out, there are plenty of them still floating around the Internet. As a special service this week, I’ve combed the vast expanses of the Internet to bring some of the greatest small-time games to light. All of the following games are completely free and available online. None of them are shady, information-sharing deals that will have you dodging the RIAA. They’re all...
Shortcuts—Timbaland’s Timbaland Presents Shock Value
By Emale Gray / April 3, 2007
Treating the severely ill has always been a challenge-and-a-half, but with the development of shock treatment, patients are able to experience a much needed improvement in their disposition. Similarly, producer Timbaland has been providing the remedy for recording artists with his own form of shock treatment that has been guaranteed to send artists’ record sales skyrocketing as high as the peaks on an EEG reading and induce a grand mal seizure that will drag listeners out of their state of musical depression. Successes of the “Timbaland Treatment” include helping Aaliyah dust herself off and try her musical career again, getting...
Ponys play solid set, but resemble foals after intense opening acts
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 3, 2007
Grimy, sleazy, booze-drenched garage punk is back, and it was on full display on Saturday at the Logan Square Auditorium. Despite the relative obscurity of Mannequin Men, The Black Lips, and The Ponys, the venue was packed to the brim. By the end of the show, the crowd was drenched in beer, silly string, and sweat. It was a throwback to the early wild days of punk, and even the most cold-hearted hipster must have warmed to them. Few Chicago shows this year may top this set, which featured two local bands as well as one of the wildest live...
Ponys gallop toward hometown after SXSW success
By Ethan Stanislawski / March 30, 2007
The Ponys, an alternative rock band based in Chicago, have gained considerable critical attention since their debut record Laced with Romance. While they have not received much commercial hype, their unique brand of garage rock tinged with post-punk has made them a critical sensation. They recently signed with Matador Records, one of the most coveted indie-rock labels in the U.S., for their well received third album, Turn the Lights Out. I talked with Nathan Jerde, the Ponys’s drummer, while the band was on its way from Boston to Montreal this Wednesday. Chicago Maroon: Are you guys excited to be performing...
There’s little reason for indulging Kundera’s challenge to look behind The Curtain
By Grant Sabatier / March 30, 2007
Milan Kundera’s new essay The Curtain reads like a collection of morning-table musings he felt compelled to write in the wake of a hangover. In the first few pages, “late Kundera” plagiarizes from “early Kundera” and his own essay The Art of the Novel by reexamining the origin of the European novel. Kundera’s new seven-part essay is another discussion on the art of the novel and the necessity of reinterpreting our visions of artistic history. The modern European novel still stems from Don Quixote and seeks to uncover a part of humanity hidden by a world where perceptions are inherited...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—March 30, 2007
By Ethan Stanislawski / March 30, 2007
Friday/ March 30 If you want to live the U of C even outside of Hyde Park, head on over to the Peter Jones Gallery to see Gray City, which closes this weekend. The play takes place at the U of C in the 1980s, and with constant allusions to Jimmy’s, Harper, and the Shoreland (which was still going strong back then), you’ll feel right at home even under the Irving Park Brown Line stop. (1806 West Cuyler Avenue, Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 6 p.m. and 9 p.m., free for students) Although Daniel Radcliffe won’t be starring in...
Shortcuts—Joss Stone’s Introducing Joss Stone
By Emale Gray / March 30, 2007
Aretha Franklin’s forte was demanding just a little bit of respect with her voice—informing men around the world with her melodically-tinged Truth Ad that she could more than fulfill all of their wants and needs. Decades later the same lyrical message and vocal prowess are shamelessly flaunted throughout Joss Stone’s newest release. This is not Stone’s first release, but it is a musical representation of everything that she is. On her EP, The Soul Sessions, her passionate voice was simply another instrument in a collection of timeless musicians, featuring Timmy Thomas, Benny Latimore, Little Beaver, and Betty Wright. However, on...
Shortcuts—The Kaiser Chiefs’ Yours Truly Angry Mob
By Salom Teshale / March 30, 2007
I’ll admit it. I enjoyed Leeds quintet Kaiser Chiefs’s buoyant debut album, Employment. It was catchy, it was British, it was good to sing along to, and that’s all I really wanted. Listening to their second album, Yours Truly, Angry Mob, I expected more of the same. Yours Truly, however, is the Chiefs’s “serious sophomore” album, which means the “Whoos” and ’70s pop keyboards I associate with the band have been toned down in favor of a more solemn sound. While it’s admirable that the group wants to become more than “that goofy British band with the song about riots”...
Shortcuts—Neil Young’s Live at Massey Hall
By Oliver Mosier / March 30, 2007
“I’m going back to Canada on a journey through the past,” Neil Young sang to his Toronto audience at Massey Hall on January 19, 1971. Young left Canada for California in 1966, and helped form Buffalo Springfield before leaving to start a solo career in 1968. By 1971, Young had released three solo albums, as well as the landmark Déjà Vu with Crosby, Stills, and Nash. That year Young was at his most prolific, bursting at the seams creatively. Despite the success of After the Gold Rush the previous fall, his musical depth was only just beginning to show. At...
Shortcuts—The Tossers’ Agony
By Ethan Stanislawski / March 30, 2007
It’s fitting that the Pogues performed in Chicago the same day Agony, the new album by the Tossers, an Irish punk band, was released. The Pogues’ shadow looms over every band that attempts Celtic rock—the Tossers, Flogging Molly and the Dropkick Murphys have all struggled to be labeled anything but novelty knockoffs. Since Celtic rock is so steeped in traditional music, the best Celtic rock bands experiment with new, unique ways of expressing a relatively ancient style. The Tossers have had their share of success over the past decade, most notably through Purgatory (2003), which made them probably the only...
300 creators bang heads for glory
By Ethan Stanislawski / March 6, 2007
With Gladiator, Alexander, and Troy, recent Greco-Roman epic films have risen in prominence. At the same time, comic book movies have become a Hollywood staple. The film 300 is the first work to combine the two concepts, retelling the battle of Thermopylae in the style of Frank Miller’s 1998 graphic novel. I was flown into L.A. to interview three of the driving forces behind 300: director Zack Snyder and actors Gerard Butler (Leonidas) and Rodrigo Santoro (Xerxes). Each had a unique perspective on the film, and all three seemed extremely enthusiastic about the product. Snyder was the first to show...
David Fincher’s Zodiac doesn’t pack much punch
By Matt Johnston / March 6, 2007
Dear Mr. Fincher: I just wanted to tell you that I am your number one fan. Not in a Kathy Bates or even an Anne Baxter sort of way, but in the most serious way that a sane, non-murderous member of our community can be. Well, maybe a shade more than that. I first saw Fight Club during my senior year of high school. I realized that people always talk about movies changing their lives, but I wondered at that time whether anyone actually mean it. Fight Club changed my life. Or maybe my life was in the process of...
Director Bong Joon-ho and his monster invade Chicago
By James Conway / March 6, 2007
I entered a room that was crawling with members of the press—well, just three members, myself included. As we sat and waited, the other two tried quizzing me on my knowledge of monster films, and we all agreed that Bong Joon-ho’s newest monster film The Host was a very unique one. For those of you who don’t know, The Host is the highest grossing Korean film of all time. Much of the film’s charm lies in the unique approaches it takes to the monster movie genre. It was with this in mind that I started my conversation with Bong Joon-ho....
Kal Penn hopes Namesake will remake his reputation
By Ethan Stanislawski / March 6, 2007
Kal Penn entered the film scene with a bang after his heralded performances in Van Wilder andHarold and Kumar Go to White Castle. Since those films, however, he’s struggled to find a satisfying role. After working in bombs like Son of the Mask, Superman Returns, and Epic Movie, Penn is now appearing in his first true dramatic role, starring in Mira Nair’s new film, The Namesake. Penn plays a young Indian named Gogol (named after his father’s favorite author), who grows up outside of New York, experiencing failed relationships with his college girlfriend Maxine and his eventual wife Moushumi. I...
Grave humor hits the mark in Carthaginians
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / March 6, 2007
Fourth-year Phoebe Duncan first encountered the script for Frank McGuinness’s Carthaginians during a study-abroad program at Trinity College in Dublin. She read it in a class on Irish theater. It stuck out from the other plays she read as not only powerful but easyto understand for even someone with no knowledge of Irish history. “It haunted me for the next two months,” Duncan said. “Haunted” is the right word for Carthaginians. The characters live in a graveyard, waiting for the dead to rise. The play is set in Derry, Northern Ireland 10 years after the Bloody Sunday massacre, and each...
Shortcuts—Arcade Fire’s Neon Bible
By Oliver Mosier / March 6, 2007
With its first album, Funeral, Arcade Fire expressed the anguish and misery of the 21st century. The band members have not attempted to distance themselves from their brilliant debut. In fact, they could have easily been victims of their own success. However, the success of their first album did not make them complacent. Neon Bible is a tremendous album in its own right. Whether it matters or not, the album borrows its title from the first novel of John Kennedy Toole, author of A Confederacy of Dunces, which he wrote at the age of 16. The album is full of...
Shortcuts—Wynton Marsalis’s From the Plantation to the Penitentiary
By Eric Benson / March 6, 2007
Wynton Marsalis has never been interested in just making music. From the beginning of his career, he’s delivered his jazz with a message—savaging jazz-rock fusion, exploring the legacy of segregation, and championing a conservative interpretation of jazz history. Now, the world’s most powerful jazzman (Marsalis is the artistic director of New York’s Jazz at Lincoln Center and the music’s most recognizable name) has released From the Plantation to the Penitentiary, an overtly political album that attempts to mesh Marsalis’s passion for fiery rhetoric with his love of traditional, carefully arranged jazz. Throughout the album, Marsalis and his quintet play with...
Shortcuts—RJD2’s The Third Hand
By Pat Skahill / March 6, 2007
Having spanned all genres from dance, rap, and funk to straight rock ’n’ roll, RJD2’s discography is, to say the least, diverse. So it really came as no surprise when RJ put his career on the line again by entirely changing up his sound on his latest release, The Third Hand. The result: a resounding success. RJD2 has reasons to treasure the diversity of his catalogue. After all, it was his willingness to mix styles on the critically acclaimed 2004 release Since We Last Spoke that first shot him to prominence alongside the much-admired DJ Shadow. Never at a loss...
Shortcuts—Mary Chapin Carpenter’s The Calling
By Anjali Verghis / March 6, 2007
I just spent the last hour deep in conversation with Mary Chapin Carpenter. Admittedly, it was rather one-sided, since I mainly listened (with the occasional “Oh, yeah!” and nod thrown in) to Carpenter share her thoughts on politics, religion, and faith. I was referring, of course, to my listening to The Calling, Mary Chapin Carpenter’s newest offering. The five-time Grammy winner has released her best album since 1996’s A Place in This World. The Calling is full of the intelligent songwriting that makes listening to Carpenter a pleasure. Carpenter has the gift of realistically portraying the plights of powerless people....
The U of C takes center stage in Huff’s Gray City
By Ethan Stanislawski / March 6, 2007
“Does love stand a chance when living the Life of the Mind?” So says the tag line of Gray City, a lovely new play at the Peter Jones Gallery in Irving Park. Despite signs of a doomed production—opening night was cancelled due to paint fumes, and there were typos in the program—the show was an absolute joy, thanks largely to strong writing by Keith Huff and remarkable performances by Scott Strangland and Anna Carini. The play takes place at the University of Chicago in the 1980s, and for U of C students, the constant references to Jimmy’s, W.J.T. Mitchell, the...
USO up to the challenge of Mahler’s 9th Symphony
By Supriya Sinhababu / March 6, 2007
The Department of Music’s University Symphony Orchestra aptly finished off the winter season with Gustav Mahler’s Symphony No. 9, a work steeped in life-and-death themes. Under the baton of Conductor and Music Director Barbara Schubert, the University Symphony gave their end-of-quarter performance on the evening of Saturday, March 3 to a nearly full Mandel Hall. Performing the entire four movements and eighty-six minutes of Mahler’s Symphony No. 9 was an ambitious choice for the 119-piece University Symphony. In the past, the ensemble’s concert programs have most often featured medleys of symphonic literature from different composers or several different works from...
In Case You Missed It—March 6, 2007
By Brian White / March 6, 2007
The Trouble with Poetry and Other Poems Billy Collins is no Shakespeare, and he’s certainly no Robert Frost—one of his many predecessors as America’s Poet Laureate. That’s just fine with him. In a time when the language of Byron would make your average high school student sick to his stomach, Billy Collins is all about, as he phrases it, “hospitable” poems. He’s often lauded for writing poems that are as deep as they are accessible. Like a modern William Carlos Williams, his poems are delightful and fun to read while showing that ambiguity is not a necessary component of good...
Wild Hogs sends audiences to the slaughterhouse
By James Conway / March 6, 2007
As the lights came on in the theater, I sat speechless and alone. No, I had not just seen the maniacally inspired performance of Forrest Whittaker in The Last King of Scotland, or even the redundant performance of Denzel Washington in the appropriately redundant film Déjà Vu. I hadn’t even see Martin Lawrence try to be funny like he was in Big Momma’s House. Instead, I had been made speechless and almost brought to tears by Wild Hogs. The only redeeming feature of the film was that I didn’t have to pay for it, unlike whatever poor souls who will...
Shortcuts—Sun Volt’s The Search
By Oliver Mosier / March 6, 2007
Sun Volt, one of two bands (along with Wilco) created by former members of Uncle Tupelo, has just released a new album. On The Search, Son Volt, still manages to retain its trademark sound despite turnover of nearly every band member excluding front man Jay Farrar. Son Volt sounds much more like Uncle Tupelo did than Jeff Tweedy and Wildo ever did. Still, Tweedy and Farrar both fall into a distinct and rather exclusive list of elite singer-songwriters. Both cannot avoid their own individuality despite their presence in a band. The Search provides the listener with interesting horn arrangements, and...
Shortcuts—Kenny Werner’s Lawn Chair Society
By Eric Benson / March 6, 2007
Kenny Werner’s Lawn Chair Society is a hard album to pin down, other than to say that it’s ambitious and creative. The album is a swirl of styles and moods, moving between trippy planetarium music, tight acoustic playing, and ’70s cop movie–inspired funk. Yet, the idiosyncrasies of the album rarely get in the way of the playing—a good thing considering the star-studded lineup of Werner on piano and keyboards, Chris Potter on tenor saxophone, Dave Douglas on trumpet, Scott Colley on bass, and Brian Blade on drums. The album begins with “Lo’s Garden,” an appropriately shifty track that starts with...
Visting professor seeks obsessed writers
By Eric Benson / March 2, 2007
No one seems to know exactly how to categorize Ron Rosenbaum, the incoming Vare Writer-in-Residence at the University. Is he a narrative journalist, a creative nonfiction writer, or a cultural essayist and critic? Whatever you call him, it’s clear that Rosenbaum’s idiosyncratic and diverse career defies journalistic orthodoxy, moving—often in the same piece—between first and third person and between speculative and investigative writing. Over the past four decades, he has written deep historical research (his 1998 book Explaining Hitler), in-depth reporting (dozens of lengthy investigative stories including one of the first exposés on Yale’s Skull & Bones), and opinionated polemics...
Folksy rockers MV & EE pull up their roots
By Grant Sabatier / March 2, 2007
Matt Valentine and Erika Elder used to sing folk melodies on their Vermont porch with friends. However, on their latest album, Green Blues (Ecstatic Peace Records), the shaggy-haired duo of MV & EE no longer peacefully waits for seasons to change. They have instead traded their meandering lullabies for psychedelics and a trip through their own cosmic forest. Valentine has plugged into early Grateful Dead, blues, and ’60s British rock, harmonizing with Elder amid flutes, harmonicas, and a violin to create a sonic experiment that flows high and low. The album has been their most successful to date, selling out...
More snakes for Samuel L. Jackson, but now with heart
By Michelle Welch / March 2, 2007
Set to greasy blues music and featuring a wide-eyed Christina Ricci and a Bible-quoting Samuel L. Jackson, Black Snake Moan tells the story of the tangled relationship that develops between a nymphomaniac and a righteous bluesman-turned-farmer. Craig Brewer’s second major feature, following 2005’s Hustle and Flow, is a tale of sin and redemption as two emotionally ravaged people come together and heal each other in the sweaty backwoods of Tennessee. “Everything is hotter down south,” the tagline suggests. Rae (Christina Ricci) and Lazarus (Samuel L. Jackson) are a pair of anguished souls searching for love. Before the two meet, Lazarus’s...
Loitering—March 2, 2007
By Echo Gonzalez / March 2, 2007
Café-hopping is a great way to get to know the city you inhabit without compromising your precious study time. If you can muster the will to tear yourself away from the Reg, you will find that Chicago is filled with cafés big and small, many of them specifically designed for the needs of the city’s stressed and often under-caffeinated college student population. With its endless seating, free Wi-Fi, and espresso menu fit for an aspiring beat king, Mercury Café is certainly one of these places. For such a huge space, it manages to keep its patrons relatively cozy. Cuddle up...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—March 2, 2007
By Eric Benson / March 2, 2007
Friday/ March 2 The chic and trendy will descend on Ida Noyes Hall for Moda’s Spring Fashion Show, a showcase of the work of Chicago- and campus-based designers. In addition to cutting-edge haute couture, the show features complimentary food and drinks and the option of VIP seating. (Cloister Club, Ida Noyes Hall, 8 p.m., $5 general, $10 VIP) Saturday/ March 3 In early February, the German filmmaker Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck came to the U of C’s Film Studies Center. In late February, he was onstage at the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles accepting the award for Best Foreign Language...
Does photography still have a place at the MCA?
By Leif Johnson / February 27, 2007
“Turn your head to the right. Down a little bit. Smile. There.” The words came from my fiancé as we rode the Metra on our way to visit the Museum of Contemporary Art’s new exhibition, MCA Exposed: Defining Moments in Photography, 1967–2007; the object she held was a camera phone. She smiled and showed me the image on the screen, and I smiled back, thinking that it was one of the best representations of me that I had ever seen. Already before we arrived at the museum, I found myself with the answer to an issue that the exhibit addresses:...
Pandora creator sounds off on booming website
By James Kraft / February 27, 2007
Tim Westergren, founder and creator of the Music Genome Project, held an open dialogue this past Friday with local Chicago musicians and producers to promote Pandora.com, an innovative internet radio service that he claims accounts for 1.5 percent of the world’s internet traffic. The talk was held in a casual atmosphere at the Riverside Theater on North Broadway Avenue. Pandora is seen by many as a potential equalizing force in the music industry, which Westergren characterized as “bifurcated” between the major labels “putting big bets on a few popular bands” and the growing independent music scene, which Westergren said “will...
Silk Road spans eclectic musical terrain
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 27, 2007
If Lego were asked to design a horn, they might come up with something like the sheng. Akin to a small toy castle, the pieced-together arrangement of 21 thin pipes delivers clear, sustained single notes, reedy warbling, and earsplitting power chords. The sheng shook the Iinternational House to its foundations during Friday night’s performance by the East-meets-West supergroup Silk Road Ensemble. Understanding how this eclectic venture came to fruition requires some clarification in terms. The Silk Road Project, brainchild of its artistic director, Yo-Yo Ma, was founded in 1999 as an initiative for artistic education and innovation. The 13 musicians...
Ordinary political satire falls flat in The Strangerer
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 27, 2007
In the first 10 minutes of Theater Oobleck’s new production, The Strangerer, George W. Bush makes three attempts on Jim Lehrer’s life. The play, a Camus-infused adaptation of the first 2004 presidential debate, juggles literary allusions, political analysis, meta-criticism of the theater experience, and mock-assassination attempts to keep the audience on its toes. Unfortunately, the issue that dominated the crowd’s attention for most of the eclectic performance was how a script with so many sources to pull from could manage to create such empty, free-floating, and incomprehensible characters. The multiplicity of sources informing the production may in fact have been...
Potter Quartet forges harmony out of conflict
By Eric Benson / February 27, 2007
Saxophonist Chris Potter might be the hardest working musician in jazz. When he’s not touring with his own group or the Dave Holland Quintet—the jazz supergroup in which he’s played for close to 10 years—he’s prowling the New York scene, playing as a guest with a heady array of musicians. Over the past six months I’ve heard him play four times with four different groups. Each time, he’s stood out. There were the two gigs where he appeared as a guest soloist with Jason Moran and Paul Motian, unfamiliar territory that he navigated with ease and vigor. There was his...
Shortcuts—Black Lips’s Los Valientes del Mundo Nuevo
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 27, 2007
It’s true that any idiot can be a rock star so long as that idiot makes up in showmanship what he lacks in chops. This theory holds true for the Black Lips, who on their best day sound like a brain-damaged version of the Exploding Hearts. Cutting their teeth at the age of 15 on the lowliest of underground performances, the Black Lips, now 22, have made their name with such stage antics as setting off firecrackers, setting fire to their pubic hair, playing their guitars with their penises, and urinating into their own mouths. In this context, the Black...
Shortcuts—The Boredoms’ Super Roots
By Seth Mayer / February 27, 2007
Sometimes the greatest compliment for a piece of music is to call it cinematic. Cinematic music is the kind that steadily builds, driving directly toward a satisfying conclusion for the listener. The Boredoms do not make cinematic music. It’s far too tactile and amorphous for that. A song that begins sounding like a strange, repetitive electronic track degenerates into diffuse static. Ethereal noise becomes pulsating rhythms. Screaming becomes percussion. The Japanese noise rock band has been around since 1986 and is rereleasing Super Roots, a series of earlier records, some of which are coming out in this country for the...
In Case You Missed It—February 27, 2007
By Brian White / February 27, 2007
This is my favorite time to be a gamer. Is that because of the release of the PS3 and the Nintendo Wii? No, it’s because, with the release of these new systems, games for their predecessors have plummeted in price, and used game stores are flooded with extras. So this week I’m going to take a look back at two old favorites for the XBox that can now be found at bargain prices. Fable There was a lot of excitement surrounding this game when it was first released. It was supposed to be a dynamic role-playing game (RPG), where your...
Oscars set for night of Sunshine and Scorsese
By John Frame / February 23, 2007
There’s something intriguing about the idea that our society is heavily preoccupied with determining the best of every aspect of popular culture. But when it comes to predicting the Academy Award winners, a kind of cynicism looms overhead. In the end, who the hell cares? I won’t bore you with my theory behind why so many people (including myself) invest so much time in this popularity contest; instead I’ll offer my opinions about the race. Go ahead: I dare you to disagree. Starting with one of the easiest races to predict, Best Supporting Actress, we’ll go ahead and entertain the...
Art triumphs amid repression and surveillance in The Lives of Others
By Rob Weisenberger / February 23, 2007
While the hammer and compass insignia of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) makes for visually interesting retro T-shirts, some college students might forget that life in the former East Germany was something less than a socialist paradise. The Lives of Others (Das Leben der Anderen), which was shown in a special pre-release screening at the University of Chicago Film Studies Center on February 7, gives the lie to the popular nostalgia of a quirky and humanitarian GDR (a phenomenon known in German as Ostalgie). By focusing on the ruthlessness of the Staatssicherheit (Stasi), the 200,000-strong secret police force that monitored...
In the dark fairy tale world of Pan’s Labyrinth, imagination is the only way out
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / February 23, 2007
The question is not whether Pan’s Labyrinth is a good movie. It has already been acclaimed by hundreds of critics and thousands of viewers. It is visually beautiful, emotionally powerful, and well written and directed. The question is whether it is good enough to earn an award like the Oscar for Best Foreign Film. Pan’s Labyrinth takes place in post–Civil War Spain at a forest headquarters for Franco’s troops. A young girl, Ofelia (Ivana Baquero), travels to the outpost with her very pregnant mother Carmen (Ariadna Gil) to meet her new stepfather, Captain Vidal (Sergí Lopez), who commands the fascist...
Oscar-nominated shorts show nuttier side of filmmaking
By Ethan Stanislawski / February 23, 2007
Far from being a throwaway category on the way to bigger and better things, the Oscar for Best Short contains some of the year’s most intriguing and unique films. Like a short story, a short film is a tricky concoction, forcing filmmakers to provide a cogent narrative in a limited time frame. Yet they also hearken back to the earliest days of film, when single-reel and trick films were the dominant means of cinematic expression. The award regained some prominence last year with the victory of Six Shooter. Directed by famous playwright Martin McDonagh, this film breathed life into the...
Exhibit highlights dealer’s invaluable contribution
By Oliver Mosier / February 23, 2007
“What are you doing here?” asked a fellow student wandering through one of the museum’s galleries. “Um, looking at paintings,” I responded. “Me too. But what are you really doing here?” I decided to have a little fun. “Buying paintings.” I said nonchalantly. “These?” He pointed at a Monet. “Yeah.” While I wasn’t actually shopping that day, I was attending an exhibition that profiled a man who owned hundreds of paintings from Cézanne to Picasso. This man was Ambroise Vollard, and the exhibit was aptly titled Cézanne to Picasso: Ambroise Vollard Patron of the Avant-Garde. The exhibition showcases nearly 250...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—February 23, 2007
By Eric Benson / February 23, 2007
Friday/ February 23 The psychotherapeutic treatment of Beau Willie Brown, a black Vietnam War veteran, serves as the dramatic foundation of UT’s production of but i cd only whisper. The play, written by third-year Kristiana Colón and directed by TAPS lecturer Tiffany Trent, interprets Brown’s experiences through multiple perspectives—bringing to life the events of the war, Brown’s take on those events, and the views of the others who also experienced them. The buzz for this show is that its intense vision has been realized as one of the best UT shows of the year. (Francis X. Kinahan Third Floor Theater,...
Whispers shout in UT
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / February 20, 2007
But i cd only whisper is a play that works by piecing things together. The many fragmented accounts and testimonies of its characters are interwoven to create a complicated man, situation, and culture. Written by graduating third-year Kristiana Colón and directed by TAPS lecturer Tiffany Trent, the play centers on the psychoanalysis of black Vietnam veteran Beau Willie Brown. As the story progresses, the audience works with the psychologist to figure out Brown’s character, as well as with Beau to identify the horrific event that brought him there. What makes this play so successful is not just the artful suspense...
Exhibit shows culture in sharp relief
By Leif Johnson / February 20, 2007
The most striking thing about a visit to the Chicago Cultural Center’s new exhibit Lasting Foundations: The Art of Architecture in Africa is the contrast. Far below the towering Greco-Roman pilasters that adorn the Sidney R. Yates Gallery rest small, mostly wooden pieces that seem to come from a far different time and place. In fact, many were made recently, the products of a number of tribal cultures that have survived the onslaught of the modern world. By one window, visitors can witness the anonymous carved face of a guardian to a tribal residence, possibly carved by a still-living tribesman....
Cruising down the Sunset Strip at an L.A. press junket
By Ethan Stanislawski / February 20, 2007
The following is a transcript taken at 3:27 a.m. PST on February 10, 2007 at the Beverly Hilton. Right now I am drinking a 375ml bottle of Perrier Jouet champagne, priced at $42. I’m watching the Bulls game on ESPN HD on a plasma screen and using precious ethernet at the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills. Think that’s it? Hardly; I still have about $65 to spend on the budget I have been given by Warner Brothers. I woke up at 2 a.m. CST Friday, after what I had expected to be a one-hour “nap” I began at 1:30 p.m....
Chicago summer scenes cure the midwinter blues
By Italia Patti / February 20, 2007
It felt a little odd and even a little masochistic to be dragging myself downtown in this weather to look at photographs of people lounging in the sun. The photography department of Columbia College, which curated the current exhibit at the City Gallery, must have realized as much. They aptly titled the show Out of Season: Photographs at the Chicago Summer. Fortunately, the four photographers featured are talented enough that the works on display command attention in their own right, not just as a diversion from low temperatures and melting piles of snow. By far the best photographs in the...
Shortcut—The Nein’s Luxury
By Pat Skahill / February 20, 2007
For those looking for a step beyond the usual, Luxury, the latest release by North Carolina post-punk revival quartet The Nein, is a brilliant success. Abandoning the typical guitar, bass, and drum rock-group format, Luxury is full of disconnected tracks, inane sampling, and cryptic, often nonsensical, vocals that somehow coalesce into an idiosyncratic and satisfying album. Ripe with conflicting sounds, Luxury is sometimes spooky, sometimes ambient, and sometimes downright post-punk. Even with such a wide breadth of material, the transitions are smooth and the album’s bold eclectic style emerges as its most commendable feature. At times, The Nein’s album is...
Shortcuts—Elvis Perkins’s Ash Wednesday
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / February 20, 2007
Acoustic folk rock is probably not a category that immediately appeals to you. Beware comparisons to Bob Dylan or Leonard Cohen. Beware the hyped-up NPR folk-warbling resurgence—these are applicable warnings. This kind of strumming repetition can be boring. Watching the unassuming Elvis Perkins take the stage as he opened for lit-rock favorites Okkervil River last fall, one could have guessed that he would soon spout out some generally nice lyrics and pick some chords on his acoustic guitar before returning to the merchandise table. But when Perkins started to play, the room was filled with one of the loveliest melodies...
Shortcuts—Explosions in the Sky’s All of A Sudden I Miss Everyone
By Oliver Mosier / February 20, 2007
Ever try to do homework while listening to your favorite music? I assume the answer to this question is an overwhelming yes. However, most of the time when I try to write a paper to Led Zeppelin III or Music From Big Pink, my work falls by the wayside. Instead of seeing a fully formed English essay, my computer screen usually reads something like “in Bernard Malamud’s The Natural, Jimmy Page is the fucking man.” However, with the Texan post-rock quartet Explosions in the Sky, I may have found the perfect paper-writing music. The band’s new album All of A...
In Case You Missed It—February 20, 2007
By Brian White / February 20, 2007
Cube (1997) There are a lot of low budget sci-fi/horror films floating around out there. The vast majority are unmitigated crap. They’re usually some amateur director’s attempt to be the next Kevin Smith, to make some dark-horse blockbuster that will get them a movie deal and get them out of the Kwik-E Mart (and their mom’s basement). These films are all-out gore fests orchestrated by talentless hacks that need to watch a lot less John Carpenter and a lot more Hitchcock. The premise of Cube is simple: A group of random strangers are trapped in a three-dimensional maze filled with...
Thriller plays spy game for snoozes
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 16, 2007
It’s hard to go wrong making a spy movie—double agents and government secrets always make for interesting content. Once you’ve got that, just plunk a strapping lad or lass in the lead role, add a villain of equal or greater strapping-ness, throw in some gadgets and a pink wig, and at the very least you have a mildly entertaining film. It won’t be a waste of an evening as long as you turn your brain off somewhere around the title sequence. Like all formulas, this doesn’t guarantee quality. Audience members with a few Bond or Bourne flicks under their belt...
Terabithia chooses character over action
By Matt Zakosek / February 16, 2007
Despite the wildly misleading trailers, Bridge to Terabithia is not another hyperkinetic, special effects–laden “adventure” for Generation ADD. Instead, it is a thoughtful, occasionally clunky family drama—more Stand by Me than Spy Kids—with fine performances by its teenage leads, Josh Hutcherson and AnnaSophia Robb. Of the two, Hutcherson (American Splendor) is slightly more effective as Jesse Aarons, an underprivileged farm boy with a passion for painting. But this may be because young men are so rarely able or expected to emote onscreen. At least since Macaulay Culkin banshee-screamed his way to fame in Home Alone, the default emotion for boys...
Does acclaimed Turkish film deserve chillier reception?
By Matt Zakosek / February 16, 2007
One of the least useful accusations that can be hurled at a film is that it is boring. “Is boredom anything less than the sense of one’s faculties slowly dying?” the novelist John Berger once asked. In recent years, I’ve defended Whale Rider and Lost in Translation against those whom—I’ll admit—I thought to be lacking in certain inner faculties. The films weren’t the problem for those viewers; it was their minds. Mea culpa. Into theaters marches Iklimler (Climates), a universally adored film by critics’ darling Nuri Bilge Ceylan. It won the FIPRESCI prize at Cannes (meant “to promote film-art and...
UT workshops offer a fresh look at lamentation
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / February 16, 2007
Both of the workshop shows at UT this week confront the audience with provocative ideas about human suffering and the ways people think and feel in situations that are out of their control or comprehension. The shows, A One-Hour Cutting of Antigone, written by Jean Anouilh and directed by Margaret Lebron, and The No Way Home, adapted and directed by Griffin Sharps, choose different ways to present characters stripped of all but the deepest and most fundamental emotions. The first of the two pieces, The No Way Home, is a dramatic adaptation of some of the lyrics of Tom Waits...
Loitering—February 16, 2007
By Echo Gonzalez / February 16, 2007
Looking to freshen your look for the coming spring? Want to impress your post–Valentine’s Day sweetheart with a unique, stylish flair? Fancy a full-body chicken mascot outfit? If you’ve answered “yes” to any of these questions, Ragstock, a mere five minutes from the Red Line, is the spot for you. Adhering to the Belmont and Clark area’s street-urchin tradition, one must cut into a small alley in order to find the entrance to this new-and-used clothing store. Upon entering, you are greeted with two shopping options: birds or blokes? If it is ladies’ wear you seek, you can climb a...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—February 16, 2007
By Eric Benson / February 16, 2007
Friday/ February 16 University Theater presents two short and innovative plays as part of “Lost and Found,” its second and final workshop week of the quarter. The first play, The No Way Home, is an adaptation of the lyrics and spirit of the ever-gritty American crooner Tom Waits. The second, A One-Hour Cutting of Antigone, is a strident re-imagining of Sophocles’ great tragedy. Together, they should not be missed. (First Floor Theater, Reynolds Club, 8 p.m., $6) Fortune-telling, belly-dancing, face-painting, fried chicken, jambalaya—all this could be yours if you mosey on over to Ida Noyes for a bit of Big...
U of C alums make Fiction a reality
By Leif Johnson / February 13, 2007
Toward the beginning of Crime Fiction, the protagonist is told that one reason why he has been unsuccessful as a writer is that he has had little experience with the subject matter he writes about. Fittingly, the movie is successful partially for the same reason. Jonathan Eliot, a Ph.D. student in comparative literature who wrote and starred in the film, has weaved a tale about concerns and experiences with which many U of C students are familiar. The opening scenes, for instance, could just as easily have been about a failed or struggling academic as a fiction writer. Crime Fiction,...
In Case You Missed It—February 13, 2007
By Brian White / February 13, 2007
Cowboy Bebop (1998-1999) I’m just going to give it to you straight: This is an anime. And let me offer a disclaimer: I hate anime. It is the most virulent in a long string of entertainment abominations to come out of the swill-hole of Japan. The word “melodramatic” barely does it credit. It is a self-appeasing genre too heavy-handed for its own good that tries desperately to continuously prove something we’ve all known for quite a while: that cartoons can be serious. Anime often lays on the symbolism and imagery way too thick. The characters are one-dimensional and often cut...
Shortcuts—Stefano Bollani’s Piano Solo
By Eric Benson / February 13, 2007
Stefano Bollani’s Piano Solo might be the most lushly recorded album ever produced. Each time Bollani strokes a note, it glows with dark timbre, lingering with haunting resonance as it fades to silence. Every sound on Piano Solo has the fullness and arc of a miniature composition. The album is a triumph of ECM’s audio engineering prowess and Bollani’s exquisite keyboard touch. Yet Piano Solo is hardly a triumph of solo jazz piano. It’s as if Bollani became so intoxicated with the beauty of these pure sounds that he forgot to develop them into a musical whole. He wanders through...
Shortcuts—Lucinda Williams’s West
By Dmitri Leybman / February 13, 2007
In 2002, Time proclaimed Lucinda Williams the best songwriter in America. It’s been five years, yet all the evidence still suggests that they were absolutely right. She’s not only America’s best lyricist, but also one of its most skillful singers. Since she writes her own songs, she knows exactly how to sing them, emphasizing the appropriate words and skillfully arranging all her compositions. The idea of the West, the title of her newest album, has long been an American metaphor for expansion and change, forces that have helped to shape this country. Williams, however, understands that that change, for all...
Roth retires an alter ego on par with Trout and Bech
By Oliver Mosier / February 13, 2007
He went to the University of Chicago for his undergraduate education in the 1950s. He came to the Midwest as a young Jewish kid from the Weequahic section of Newark with a keen wit and a penchant for literature. His name was Nathan Zuckerman, and you’ve probably heard of his creator, Philip Roth. This year marks the end for Zuckerman, which is kind of an ending for Roth. Roth, however, seemingly has no retirement plans. With the publication of Exit Ghost later this year, Roth will lay to rest his most enduring protagonist. That is worth a living eulogy. The...
New MTV platform utilizes Lily Allen’s star power
By Emale Gray / February 13, 2007
“Want to hear the best in new music?” MTV.com asks. “MTV’s Discover & Download is the show where you can check out kick-ass new bands tearing up broadband.” As of late, trusting MTV for quality music is like having sex with a prostitute—it’s much more likely that you’ll wind up with syphilis than a good time. With its line-up of shows such as The Road Rules, NEXT, My Super Sweet 16, and Parental Control, it’s hard to even find music on a network improperly titled music television. And their main source of music entertainment, TRL, does nothing to aid your...
Mailer turns toward good, evil, and the mythic
By Grant Sabatier / February 13, 2007
Norman Mailer looked like a beggar who had ducked into Borders to escape the wind. I didn’t recognize him until a woman whispered his name. The fist-waving, cursing Mailer, who once stabbed his wife in the chest, walked feebly through the store with a cane. We have a past, Mailer and I. The summer after first year, I spent my afternoons at the Library of Congress reading every editorial Mailer wrote for The Village Voice. Mailer turned 84 a week ago and was in town last Thursday to read from The Castle in the Forest, his first novel in a...
The Police take no prisoners at their Grammy reunion
By Oliver Mosier / February 13, 2007
Jenna Jameson notwithstanding, the musical ménage of Stewart Copeland, Andy Summers, and Sting rank among the elite of history’s greatest threesomes. Formed in 1977, The Police won over fans in the early 1980s due to a combination of their unique sound and the collective hangover much of the public felt in the wake of the late-’70s punk rock movement. The Police, originally comprised of drummer Copeland, Corsican guitarist Henry Padovani, and bassist/principal songwriter Sting, were the right band at the right time. (For the record, if my birth name were Gordon Sumner, I would go by Sting, too.) Andy Summers...
Folk Festival doles out some of that old-time tradition
By Ben Nelson / February 6, 2007
[img id=”80151″ align=”alignleft”] The first song performed at this year’s University of Chicago Folk Festival, by the Elkins String Ticklers, was instrumental by necessity: The elderly West Virginia balladeer who taught the band his composition could remember only its title—which was, ironically, “Remember What You Told Me.” The Elkins group’s next song was untitled for exactly the same reason. So it goes with folk music. By the time a new generation of players discover the beauty of their forebears’ playing, it’s often too late to capture the original versions for future listeners. Even famed musicologists John and Alan Lomax, who...
The Lonely makes leap from drawings to dance floor
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / February 6, 2007
The Lonely is an example of a work of art being successfully reimagined in another form. A theatrical dance show based on the drawings of William Steig, it is an energetic blend of many forms of expression. With so much going on at once, the simple black-and-white drawings may have been in danger of getting lost or obscured, but instead they only grew more vivid. Director Kate Blomquist knew what she wanted to do almost from the moment she first saw a book of Steig’s drawings. “Whenever I looked at the drawings, I could already see the dances in my...
Strings and singers rock out in winter concert
By Supriya Sinhababu / February 6, 2007
No Chicagoan who left the house this weekend needed a groundhog to know that winter will have its way with the Windy City for as many more weeks as it damn well pleases. Nonetheless, a sizeable audience braved the subzero temperatures and wind chill advisory, filing into the vestibule of Rockefeller Chapel on Saturday to attend the Department of Music’s nominally trans-seasonal concert event: Groundhog Day—Music for the Pagan Festival of Lights. Groundhog Day featured the University Chamber Orchestra under conductor William C. White, and the Motet Choir and University Chorus, both led by conductor James Kallembach. Apropos of the...
Cosmophilia figures to shed light on the artistic side of political debate
By Leif Johnson / February 6, 2007
Behind me, paintings by both obscure and famous artists populated a number of winding galleries. Purely decorative and useless in a practical sense, such objects have served as the core of Western art for centuries. In stark contrast, before me stood four comparatively ordinary displays: a doorknocker, a piece of cloth, a pair of astragals, and the only obvious religious piece, a mihrab, used to indicate the direction of Mecca while in prayer. Each had been made by artists whom time and perhaps choice have left to anonymity. However ostensibly ordinary, further inspection revealed that they glistened with the efforts...
Shortcuts—Apples in Stereo’s New Magnetic Wonder
By Salom Teshale / February 6, 2007
It’s a universally acknowledged truth that winter quarter at the University of Chicago is terrible. Luckily, the Apples in Stereo have arrived just in time to remind us of happier, warmer, and better times with New Magnetic Wonder, their sixth studio album. New Magnetic Wonder displays a glossier sound than their earlier work, though it’s still chock-full of cheerful harmonies, infectious hooks, and grungy guitars. From the opening track, “Can You Feel It,” to the four-part opus, “Beautiful Machine,” New Magnetic Wonder gives you more upbeat rock than you can handle. The album differs from its predecessors in that it...
New York newlyweds execute Five Year plan
By Lisbeth Redfield / February 6, 2007
It’s summer in New York and Jamie Wellerstein, a bright young thing in a Columbia writing program, meets aspiring actress Cathy Hiatt for a date. They move in together, get married, and then watch their relationship slowly deteriorate toward the inevitable divorce. This, in a nutshell, is the plot of Robert Jason Brown’s elegant chamber musical The Last Five Years. The catch is not in the story, but the way it is told. Quite literally musical theater, The Last Five Years is made up entirely of songs sung by either Cathy or Jamie, but almost never both. Cathy narrates the...
Shortcuts—Sondre Lerche’s Phantom Punch
By Dmitri Leybman / February 6, 2007
Sondre Lerche is a master of melody. His previous album, Two Way Monologue, was a great collection of sweet pop that recalled the best of the Beach Boys, Billy Joel, and Nick Drake. With his new album, Phantom Punch, Lerche abandons what made him exceptional by venturing into new territory. Those fans who expected an extension of his previous work will be surprised. This album finds Lerche trading in lovely melodies for a looser, more rock ’n roll, sound. The guitars are loud and prominent, while the drums attack the ears with merciless abandon. Melodies still come easy to Lerche,...
In Case You Missed It—February 6, 2007
By Brian White / February 6, 2007
After a heavier article last week, today I want to review an artist and a movie that are both just pure, unabashed fun. Ricki-Oh: The Story of Ricki (1992) Ricki-Oh is one of those rare spectacular failures that should have known it would be impossible to take itself seriously, a movie in which someone’s face is cut off with a wood plane in the opening scene. The story centers around Ricki, a young kung fu master, who is put in prison and proceeds to punch, kick, and mutilate his way through the prison’s evil masters. These include, but are not...
Jazz stars old and new perform solid set at CSO
By Anjali Verghis / February 6, 2007
I was privileged to hear two of the finest current jazz groups at the Symphony Center on Friday night in a joint concert of the Joey DeFrancesco Trio and the Count Basie Orchestra. Joey DeFrancesco is a relatively new musical phenomenom, having released his first recording in 1989. The Count Basie Orchestra, on the other hand, has endured from 1936 to the present, 23 years after the Count’s death, proving its greatness in the industry. Described as “the baddest B-3 burner in the business,” organist Joey DeFrancesco led his trio in four songs, bringing vocalist Colleen McNabb onstage for a...
DuSable presents “381 Days” of bravery and bigotry
By Abigail Brown / February 6, 2007
“381 Days: The Montgomery Bus Boycott Story,” is an engaging history lesson from Reconstruction to the non-violent demonstrations of 1955–56 in Montgomery, Alabama that were sparked by Rosa Parks. While the focus is on one of the turning points in the struggle against segregation, it shows the side of those opposed to desegregation as well. The exhibit, located at the DuSable Museum, features a range of media designed to convey the story of the bus boycott, starting well before Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat. There are court documents, paintings, drawings, movies, and photographs. The photographs are multitudinous...
For Caine, there are no borders
By Eric Benson / February 2, 2007
Jazz and classical music have a lot in common these days—a niche market, strong institutional support, sagging record sales—but when it comes to rhythm and harmony, they’re often far apart. While the two have certainly influenced each other, attempts to combine them typically falter, diluting both musical genres into poly-stylistic mush. This isn’t to say that creating a satisfying hybrid is impossible, just that it’s a difficult border to navigate. Pianist Uri Caine has made a living on this border, borrowing generously from both jazz and classical music since the start of his career. Caine spent a busy two days...
Stingel beckons viewers to take a closer look
By Jenny Fisher / February 2, 2007
“When you’re in this gallery, please be aware of the taped lines in front of these pieces,” says the guard as two visitors lean closer and closer to the surface of one of Rudolf Stingel’s giant oil and enamel paintings. It’s the kind of show that demands that viewers look closer. Sometimes, they’re even invited to physically engage with the work—as visitors do to the enormous carpet mounted on one wall of the gallery, running their fingers through the thick white surface and scratching out words or doodles. The Museum of Contemporary Art’s (MCA) survey of contemporary artist Rudolf Stingel’s...
Brosnan Falls from James Bond to the Old West
By Matt Johnston / February 2, 2007
At this point, it does not even seem possible to make a Western that’s not revisionist. Modern audiences cannot take such wide-open spaces and sweeping moral judgments at face value. John Wayne has to be misogynistic and Clint Eastwood has to be exploitative of Mexican labor. These new readings are probably for the best. There was something deeply disconcerting about a cultural hero whose main claim to fame is his ability to kill a bunch of strangers at a distance without reloading his gun. The sexual and moral ambiguities were always there, but modern filmmakers have given up on keeping...
Shortcuts—Clap Your Hands Say Yeah’s Some Loud Thunder
By Oliver Mosier / February 2, 2007
There is something to be said for a band’s willingness to take huge leaps. However, with Clap Your Hands Say Yeah’s sophomore release, Some Loud Thunder, they appear to have skipped a few necessary steps and missed the landing a couple times on the way. Many of the things I enjoyed about their self-titled debut album were curiously absent from its successor. Guitarist and lead singer Alec Ounsworth fronts the quintet. Ounsworth’s voice is far from ordinary. His slurred falsetto is still very much intact on Some Loud Thunder. Although it lacks any real melodic capacity, the band’s premiere work...
Shortcuts—Of Montreal’s Hissing Fauna, Are You the Destroyer?
By Ben Nelson / February 2, 2007
“Suffer for Fashion,” the first song on Of Montreal’s new album, opens with a gently strummed acoustic guitar; for five seconds, it sounds like it could be any modern indie-rock group. From this point on, Hissing Fauna, Are You the Destroyer? is something else entirely. The band erupts into a disco stomp with reckless abandon, and Kevin Barnes delivers a cryptic but anthemic-sounding first line: “We just want to emote till we’re dead/ I know we suffer for fashion or whatever.” His high-gloss, multi-tracked vocal shimmers over a catchy synthesizer-driven melody while the bass line anchors the song in a...
Shortcuts—Warm in the Wake’s Gold Dust Trail
By Pat Skahill / February 2, 2007
Everyone knows the feeling of passively listening to an album and being floored when a certain melody hits that suddenly commands your attention. Be it a lyric that reverberates with your own feelings or a certain guitar riff fired off with such perfection that you feel the hair on your neck stand up, every artist strives for these moments of raw emotion. The greatest albums evoke these emotions in every song, but most artists consider themselves lucky to garner such a response from their audience even once. While Warm in the Wake’s debut EP The Gold Dust Trail isn’t an...
Contrasting UT shows workshop well together
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / February 2, 2007
The title of this week’s University Theater (UT) workshop event, You’re Gonna Love Very Small Important People, may seem a bit overlong, but it ties the three shows together about as tersely as possible. As is usual with workshop shows, Christopher Shea’s “Very Important People,” Roy London’s “It’s a Small World,” and “Old Friends: The Songs of Stephen Sondheim” were placed together not because of any common theme but because they are appropriate to the format. As Augie Praley, director of “It’s A Small World,” put it, “The shows fit together in the only way UT workshops can: Randomly.” This...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—February 2, 2007
By Eric Benson / February 2, 2007
Friday/ February 2 Mississippi bluesmen, Carolina bluegrass players, bayou fiddlers, gospel divas and more will make their way to Mandel Hall for the U of C Folklore Society’s annual Folk Festival. People come from far and wide to catch a rich and diverse array of performers who will play on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday evenings and lead workshops during the day on Saturday and Sunday. Each performance will feature five different groups and promises to be well worth your penny. More information is available at UofCFolk.org. (Concerts: Mandel Hall, 8 p.m.; also 2/3, 7:30 p.m.; 2/4, 6 p.m.; $20 general,...
Deerhoof tramples rock standards
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / February 2, 2007
Deerhoof is one of the most adorable and inevitably volatile live bands performing today. Front woman Satomi Matsuzaki is a pint-sized dynamo who has been known to bring oversized stuffed bananas and strawberries onstage and gesture like a kindergarten teacher or jerky (the adverb, not the adjective) crossing guard. Her bandmates, drummer Greg Saunier and guitarist Rob Fisk, tower over Matsuzaki with an endearing gawkiness intensified by their musical precision. The band’s reputation precedes them in Chicago, as their show at the Metro on Saturday was sold out. Legions of eager fans stood through three openers, including the superb lyricist...
McPhee stays golden after Idol
By Emale Gray / February 2, 2007
Finishing runner-up to Mr. Belvedere (a.k.a. Taylor Hicks) on American Idol had to be a serious blow; however, Katharine McPhee is proving with her debut album that she’s “so over it.” Former idles Ruben Studdard, Clay Aiken, and the rest of the Scooby gang have garnered little claim to fame besides their dismal fan bases. With AI’s recent string of couch potatoes, Katharine’s apprehensive yet compelling vocal prowess is a relief from the hangover of previous contestants. Boasting ass-stomping knee-high heels, an all-too-short skirt, and a head full of luscious locks, McPhee’s album cover summarizes her successes and shortcomings, and...
Norah Jones’s self-exploration comes just in time
By Dmitri Leybman / January 30, 2007
Norah Jones’s debut album Come Away With Me was one of the best-selling albums of the past decade. Listeners eager to hear something different, softer, and gentler than the usual fare snapped up 20 million copies of it. Despite the paucity of promotion and radio airplay, the album’s most popular track, “Don’t Know Why,” is one of the few timeless songs of this decade. A song so sweet and so perfect, it seemed like it had always been there, just waiting patiently for someone to record it. Come Away With Me would go on to win eight Grammy Awards, sell...
Lily Allen’s ragged, grassroots pop saves the day
By Emale Gray / January 30, 2007
While venturing through the South Side of Chicago, you can see the prevalence of crime, poor housing, and general feeling of restlessness. However, there is one girl that can look upon such dreary features and turn the world on with her smile. Sporting angelic features and cheeky lyrics, British savior Lily Allen has what it takes to redeem the world of music from its sins. The Passion of this modern-day savior is a true Lifetime special-and-a-half. She never made friends while switching between over a dozen different schools before hitting the tender age of 15. After dropping out altogether, all...
The Hilliard Ensemble ventures into the obscure with connoisseur’s care
By Lisbeth Redfield / January 30, 2007
Walking into Rockefeller Chapel on Friday night, I felt like I was trespassing at a members-only event. It was a concert by the Hilliard Ensemble, performing music by 15th-century composers Guillaume Dufay and Josquin Desprey. The audience, like the music, was a bit specialized. If you’ve never heard of either composer, don’t worry. A lot of people haven’t. But everyone who had heard of them was in attendance at this concert. Waiting for the show to begin, I entertained myself by eavesdropping on my fellow audience members. One group behind me was arguing about the pronunciation of old French and...
In Case You Missed It—January 30, 2007
By Brian White / January 30, 2007
I’m trying a new thing here by reviewing video games. I feel a bit guilty. After all, video games are just that: games. It’s a little odd in my opinion to put them in the same column as The Maltese Falcon. In a way, reviewing video games next to movies, TV, books, and music is like reviewing chess next to The Great Gatsby. So why? I think there is a level of legitimacy to be had here. Video games aren’t just about entertainment. They’re about fantasy, imagination, and inventiveness. They’re something like super-charged choose-your-own-adventure novels. Growing up playing video games,...
Incoherence and pretension destroy Lynch’s Empire
By Elizabeth Goetz / January 26, 2007
David Lynch’s newest film, Inland Empire, has a lot in common with Darren Aronofsky’s The Fountain. Both have metaphysical subplots that are not as well interwoven or synchronized with the frame plot as their directors would like to have you believe. Inland Empire is named for the suburban terrain sprawling from the eastern edge of Los Angeles County to the Nevada border, and at nearly three hours, the movie stretches out longer than the congested highways of Riverside County. The film’s repetitive scenes, interspersed throughout, do little to further the plot, illustrate the characters’ personalities, or make the film more...
Commanding performances rule in Court’s rendition of Chekhov masterpiece
By Andrew Hammond / January 26, 2007
American playwrights such as Tennessee Williams, Arthur Miller, and Eugene O’Neill often evade the issue of mortality. Suffering and death rarely trump the American playwrights’ preoccupations with alcoholism and father-son relations. Anton Chekhov, on the other hand, never avoids the issue. He wrestles it to the ground, and that struggle is on full display in Court Theatre’s latest production. Uncle Vanya, which opened last Saturday at the Museum of Contemporary Art, is ultimately an exploration of the human condition. Two intrepid actors lead this exploration: Kevin Gudahl in the title role and Timothy Edward Kane as Astrov, the country doctor....
Audience delights while clowns suffer in Agon
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / January 26, 2007
In a spotlight show, a production has no limitations. Spotlight shows don’t happen often—most shows fit into one of UT’s regular formats. Agon isn’t one of those. The play explores the extremes of physical theater and connects them loosely to the story of Aeschylus’s Oresteia. From the moment the first clown comes on stage, two things happen to most audience members. They become completely absorbed by the action that is taking place on stage, even if they struggle to understand it, and then after a few moments, they realize that this is a production unlike any they have seen before....
Wilson’s last play shoots straight into the bunker
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 26, 2007
Too much of the praise of August Wilson is based on the fact that he wrote a play about the black experience for each decade of the 20th century. Not enough of the praise discusses the uncanny ear for the spoken word, fully realized characters, and flawless ability to weave the real with the spiritual that made Wilson one of the most accomplished American playwrights, black or white, of the past half century. Composed before his death at age 60, Wilson’s final play, Radio Golf, premiered Tuesday at the Goodman Theatre, the only American company to have produced all 10...
Loitering—January 26, 2007
By Echo Gonzalez / January 26, 2007
What separates Blackstone Bicycle Works (BBW) from Chicago’s other bike shop offerings? Located in Woodlawn just behind the University’s steam plant, this retail establishment was launched with the goal of community service and runs on a self-described “internal non-monetary economy.” While anyone is welcome to purchase a bike or make use of the shop’s services, members and local kids are especially encouraged to participate in this “economy.” Members enjoy exclusive sales on bikes and parts, as well as access to the tools and the help of friendly expert mechanics. Youth members help repair bikes and finish other odd jobs at...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—January 26, 2007
By Eric Benson / January 26, 2007
Friday, January 26 The Hilliard Ensemble, a world-renowned vocal group, has specialized in early music since its beginning in 1974. Yet the Ensemble is also an adventurous and flexible unit, performing the work of contemporary composer Arvo Pärt and collaborating with jazz saxophonist Jan Garbarek. This group may love old tunes, but they’re anything but stuffy. (Rockefeller Chapel, 8 p.m., $30 general, $11 student) David Lynch, the director of Blue Velvet and Mulholland Drive, is famous for his inscrutable plots and searing images. Inland Empire, his latest effort, makes its Chicago debut today and will run through February 1, exclusively...
U of C spends wild night with Bob Saget
By Nora Vallerini / January 23, 2007
“Ew, and why?” A valid question Bob Saget himself posed midway through his performance in Mandel Hall. Saget, known during the ’90s as wholesome father-figure Danny Tanner on Full House and hokey host of America’s Funniest Home Videos, came to the U of C campus Sunday for the winter MAB show. But anyone expecting Danny Tanner would have had her childhood destroyed, or in the world of Bob Saget, defecated on. Defecation, especially on other people, offers a nice sample of Saget’s performance. “Poo humor,” as he referred to it, was prevalent. The only topic that overshadowed it was sex....
Faith Healer’s excellent showmanship gives audience the razzle dazzle
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 23, 2007
While the Chopin Theatre in Wicker Park is a limited space, director Mikhael Tara Garver of Uma Productions has made the most of it and then some in her production of Brian Friel’s Faith Healer. Instead of entering through the theater, the audience is led by crew members through a back alley to the cramped basement, just as you would to attend the services of a real Irish faith healer. That introduction makes the makeshift stage and seating all the more authentic, and if you can ignore the Chicago hipster audience, it sets the mood for the play perfectly. Faith...
Documentary brings fresh look to Tired genre
By Matt Johnston / January 23, 2007
God Grew Tired of Us has all of the hallmarks of a liberal guilt documentary. African subject matter? The Lost Boys of Sudan. Check. Celebrity narration? Nicole Kidman. Check. Celebrity producers? Brad Pitt. Catherine Keener. Dermot Mulroney. Check, check, check. All that is lacking, then, is the liberal. And the guilt. Against the odds, God Grew Tired of Us is a warm and enjoyable documentary with little in the way of political agenda and much in the way of human compassion. It tells an extraordinarily sad story, but it does not fail to portray patches of hope and humor. To...
Shortcuts—The Shins’ Wincing the Night Away
By Dmitri Leybman / January 23, 2007
It’s impossible to write a review of Wincing the Night Away without at least mentioning Garden State and what that movie did for The Shins’ career. If it wasn’t for Zach Braff incorporating one of their songs into his film’s plot (“This song will change your life,” the Natalie Portman character informs Zach Braff’s character before playing “New Slang” from the band’s debut album Oh, Inverted World), who knows where the band might be now. They’d probably be just another indie darling, continuing to create stellar pop records whose influence would only be felt when later bands utilizing their sound...
Shortcuts—The Good, the Bad & the Queen
By Salom Teshale / January 23, 2007
The Good, the Bad & the Queen, as you may have heard, is something of a rock supergroup. Damon Albarn (Blur), Paul Simonon (The Clash), Tony Allen (Fela Kuti), and Simon Tong (The Verve)—with the help of Danger Mouse—have combined their powers to form the ultimate rock sensation. Their eponymous album is a laid-back, somewhat melancholy affair with a hint of dub, evoking rainy afternoons and empty London streets. An undercurrent of nostalgia runs through the tracks, beginning with the nursery-rhyme la’s of “History Song,” continuing through the ’50s-tinged piano of “’80s Life” and finishing with the wistful ballad “Green...
In Case You Missed It—January 23, 2007
By Brian White / January 23, 2007
This week I would like to take time to address a show that is one of my favorites. It’s a well reviewed and well known program that, strangely, very few people have actually gotten around to watching. So I have devoted my entire column to telling you, in a most didactic and condescending manner, why you should agree with me. TV: The Office (2005–Present) I know The Office hardly counts as obscure these days, especially after its recent Emmy and Golden Globe wins. But when the show was first released, it was hard to find a single other person who...
Eastwood shows the bad and the ugly sides of war
By Joe Katz / January 19, 2007
In one of a number of haunting scenes in director Clint Eastwood’s Letters from Iwo Jima, the odds finally seem to have caught up with the young baker-turned-soldier Saigo (Kazunari Ninomiya). Long set apart from his compatriots by his desire to live, he has snuck away to evade an order to commit suicide only to find himself staring down the barrel of his battalion-mate Shimizu’s rifle, desperately trying to explain his shirking of duty. By this point in Letters, it is abundantly clear that Eastwood and writer Iris Yamashita are aiming to show their audience the true nightmare of war,...
Margaret Cho and burlesque legends bring stylish sexiness to Vic Theatre
By Abigail Brown / January 19, 2007
Drag kings dressed as sperm performing a synchronized dance to Eminem’s “Lose Yourself.” Need I say more? The Vic Theater in Belmont hosted Gurlesque Burlesque, an all-female burlesque show, last Saturday night. Though most people came to see the infamous Margaret Cho, famous for her provocative stand-up comedy, it was the Boyz and their sperm dance that stole the show for my friends and me. The acts of “Gurlesque Burlesque” ranged from the kinky La Divina Cucina, who simply read recipes to the audience in a provocatively sultry voice, to the political, in an act featuring two naked women disguised...
The Uncommon Interview: Bob Saget
By Eric Benson / January 19, 2007
In recent years, comedian Bob Saget has transformed his image from Danny Tanner, the good-guy father figure on the long-running sitcom Full House, to a raunchy comedian who recently made waves with cameo turns in The Aristocrats and an episode of Entourage. We talked with Saget about that transformation, his new film Farce of the Penguins, and the Michael Richards controversy in anticipation of his MAB show at Mandel Hall this Sunday. Chicago Maroon: I want to know about Farce of the Penguins, which is being released on DVD on January 30. Bob Saget: Yeah, I clearly have issues. CM:...
Aronofsky praises experiments, on film and otherwise
By Elizabeth Goetz / January 19, 2007
Be careful if you decide to remain on speaking terms with your first-year roommate. This was one of the morals to be gleaned from film director Darren Aronofsky’s conversation with a full audience at the Max Palevksy Cinema last Friday evening after a screening of The Fountain, the latest of his three films. Aronofsky, it seems, would never have ended up at one of Doc Films’ 75th anniversary events were it not for the persuasion of Richard Neer, a professor of art history at the U of C, who also roomed with Aronofsky at Harvard and moderated the event, along...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—January 19, 2007
By Eric Benson / January 19, 2007
Friday/ January 19 Clue, the 1985 film based on the infamous Parker Brothers board game, is a freewheeling, kitschy ride of a movie that didn’t impress too many critics but has gained an avid cult following. The movie also has three different endings, each giving a different solution to this age-old whodunit. In keeping with the rest of weekend midnight series, which included a Buffy the Vampire Slayer sing-along last week, expect fervent fans and plenty of zany fun. (Music Box Theatre, 3733 North Southport Avenue, midnight, $9.25, also 1/20) Uncle Vanya, perhaps Anton Chekov’s most celebrated work, has its...
Real life School of Rock students show they don’t need no education
By William Chyr / January 19, 2007
15 minutes before the show started, I walked into Schubas Tavern’s music room to find myself in a crowd of moms, dads, baby siblings, and grandparents—not exactly your typical rock-concert crowd. But then again, this wasn’t going to be a typical rock concert—the band that was to be rocking out on stage was a class from the Paul Green School of Rock presenting Pink Floyd’s The Wall. Yes, an actual school of rock. Established in 1998 in Philadelphia, the Paul Green School of Rock is a music school that takes in kids between the ages of 7 and 18 and,...
Ultramagnetic MC’s falter in unattractive comeback
By Seth Mayer / January 12, 2007
It’s hard to get excited about comeback albums anymore. Even coming out of retirement and cheating on Beyoncé isn’t doing it for the American record-buying public. And if Jay-Z isn’t making the kind of dent he used to with his comeback album, everyone else must be having it twice as hard. So Ultramagnetic MC’s haven’t picked a great time to end their nine-year break from putting out records. With Best Kept Secret, the newest release from the group, the rappers make a bid to renew the relevance of Ultramagnetic, which was last important as one of the late ’80s /...
Below the border, Canadian popsters fail to push themselves above the pack
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 12, 2007
When aliens descend upon the rubble once known as the planet Earth and come across the great tomes of rock ’n’ roll, how will a band like Sloan appear in their eyes? Quite prominently, if it’s somewhere north of the 49th parallel, as the Halifax natives are one of the most successful bands in Canadian history. Stateside, however, their legacy is more ambiguous: Are they a lesser form of bland, poor-little-rich-girl rock, the likes of which include Ben Folds, Guster, and (gasp!) Dave Matthews Band, or are they among the quirky, inspired members of the power-pop underground, such as Camper...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)—January 12, 2007
By Eric Benson / January 12, 2007
Friday/ January 12 Director Darren Aronofsky kicks off Doc Films’ 75th anniversary celebration with a Q&A session and a screening of his latest film, The Fountain. Aronofsky directed the much-lauded Pi, for which he won the directing prize at the 1998 Sundance Film Festival, and the deeply depressing Requiem for a Dream. The Fountain, which arrived in theaters last year after a vexed production that saw the slashing of its budget and the departure of its original stars, Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett, divided critics and fizzled at the box office. What’s clear now is that Aronofsky is not only...
Angela Lee blurs the line between freak and chic
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / January 12, 2007
The human body can be a compelling, but oftentimes off-putting canvas. To look through the books of flash (pre-designed tattoos) at a standard American tattoo parlor is often to be filled with disgust and shock—does anybody really want a skull with fire and whiskey in its eye sockets on the back of her hand? Or does anyone want a soon-to-be-ex-boyfriend’s name on her ankle, even in dubious Chinese character? Nonetheless, the experience of seeing a well done tattoo can also be one of utter awe and admiration. Some tattoos are beautiful and completely evocative of the person upon whom they...
Loitering—January 12, 2007
By Echo Gonzalez / January 12, 2007
A bespectacled employee slouches behind a wooden counter amongst boxes of miscellaneous literature, a handmade mannequin, and a pot of brewing coffee. Each wall is shelved nearly to the ceiling with used books, and the dry smell of old paper hangs in the still air. At first glance, Myopic Books in Wicker Park may seem like one of Chicago’s many other tiny, hodgepodge bookstores. Further inspection, however, reveals that this is only the front room of a labyrinthine depository of what seems to be every genre of book imaginable, from Eastern Religion to Parapsychology to True Crime. Indeed, it is...
From socialists to cineasts, Doc celebrates 75 years
By John Frame / January 9, 2007
In 1932, International House began screening a number of foreign films that were not given wide Chicago (or sometimes, U.S.) distribution. By 1940, all of the energy combined to form the Documentary Film Group, a socialist group dedicated to screening exclusively non-fiction films that furthered its cause. “This early group viewed film as a catalyst for discussion more than an art form. That changed quickly as they added ‘fiction films’ and repertory titles after it became clear that grim documentaries wouldn’t pay the bills,” says English major Kyle Westphal, the finance co-chair and unofficial historian of Doc Films. Academic film...
Alfonso Cuarón fosters a bleak, hopeless future for Children of Men
By Matt Johnston / January 9, 2007
Children of Men is an intense experience. It begins with the feel of most movies, especially most movies based in futuristic distopias. But by the halfway mark, all semblance of rules or narrative has been washed away in the crossfire. In a sequence that seemingly runs for hours, three characters move through a ruined city teeming with soldiers and warfare. Only a collective masterstroke could sustain such a sequence of nonstop movement and violence, with little or no dialogue, and come out with the best new movie I saw in 2006. Director Alfonso Cuarón and his team do just that....
Dreamgirls gives Hollywood some much-needed soul
By John Frame / January 9, 2007
Filmed with simple yet breathtaking camera shots and effective dance sequences, writer/director and Academy Award–winner Bill Condon’s cinematic adaptation of the Tony Award–winning musical Dreamgirls plays like a time warp. Beginning in the early 1960s and cruising through the 1970s, Dreamgirls, chronicles the fictional rise of the Dreamettes (later The Dreams), a black female trio of singers from Detroit. The Dreamettes get their big break when the talent competition they would have won is rigged by a slick manager/car salesman named Curtis Taylor (played effectively by Jamie Foxx), who wants to use the girls to achieve crossover success on the...
Legendary promoter Bill Graham rocks on with treasure-trove tribute site
By Oliver Mosier / January 9, 2007
Classical music had Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, the Gulf War had Wolf Blitzer, and classic rock concert promoting in the 1960s and 1970s had Wolfgang Grajonca, or as rock n’ roll remembers him, Bill Graham. Graham is most famous for presenting concerts in venues like New York’s Fillmore East and San Francisco’s Fillmore West and Winterland Ballroom. Sixteen years after his death, it appears that Graham is back. Well, maybe not the man himself, but at least the songs he recorded. Throughout his career in music, Graham made soundboard recordings of the majority of shows he promoted. After Graham’s tragic death...
Top 5 Films of 2006—Matt Zakosek
By Matt Zakosek / January 9, 2007
The Devil Wears Prada The summer’s frothiest treat features surprisingly sharp class commentary and a delicious lead performance by the infallible Ms. Streep. It’s one of the rare stories that improves in quality from the page to the screen (Lauren Weisberger’s unnecessarily catty 2003 bestseller will be best remembered for inspiring this film). As Streep’s brittle, anorexic assistant, Emily Blunt gives the year’s breakout performance, and Stanley Tucci locates the heart of the story in underappreciated editor Nigel. Prada is also notable for the year’s best line: Streep’s sub-arctic “The details of your incompetence do not interest me.” An Inconvenient...
Top 5 Films of 2006—Ethan Stanislawski
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 9, 2007
Half Nelson Half Nelson marks the greatest directorial debut of 2006 by Ryan Fleck. The film features a harrowing story of an idealist middle school teacher struggling with a crack addiction while trying to mentor a student headed in the wrong direction. It captures a crisis in American liberalism and also breaks your heart with its superbly complex and excellently acted protagonists. The cinematography is spellbinding, and Ryan Gossling gives a breakthrough performance, establishing himself as one of American cinema’s most promising young actors. Volver Pedro Almodóvar has given femininity and gender politics extensive examination in past films, but with...
Top 5 Films of 2006—Elizabeth Goetz
By Elizabeth Goetz / January 9, 2007
Pan’s Labyrinth A beautifully colored live-action fairy tale with political relevance, this film won’t leave your mind once you see it. Its fantastical elements are deftly interwoven with the real-world historical setting of fascist Spain circa 1944, making them almost believable. This movie accomplishes the rare feat of combining its imaginary and historical components without doing injustice to either. The film pulses with delicious hints of picture books you can’t quite remember made grown-up with the severity of creative, surprisingly non-superfluous, violence. The Good Shepherd Matt Damon did well this year, following his starring role in The Departed with his...
Top 5 Films of 2006—Matt Johnston
By Matt Johnston / January 9, 2007
Children of Men See full review. The Departed Its supporters have taken some flak for a condescending view of Scorsese. Jim Emerson describes the attitude on his Scanners blog: “Good boy. You stick to your mobsters now, won’t you?” But The Departed is Scorsese’s best in more than a decade, and if that greatness only comes about when he is chasing mobsters, so be it. Featuring a sparkling screenplay by William Monahan and a viciously arresting performance by Jack Nicholson, The Departed is a neat little package with blood seeping out at the corners. Ondskan (Evil) What best-of list would...
In Case You Missed It—January 9, 2006
By Brian White / January 9, 2007
I’ve never been a huge fan of horror as a genre, but for some reason I always end up watching it. I don’t know why, perhaps it springs from the same masochistic urge that pushes people into watching Blue Collar TV or listening to Barry Manilow. Almost every horror movie that comes down the pipeline is just another excuse to show blood, guts, and boobies, and generally make a mess of what might have been money well spent on a drama. But every once in a while, a horror movie will come along that (for various reasons) is worth renting....
Carol melts inner Scrooges with yuletide comforts
By Lisbeth Redfield / November 28, 2006
I think the Goodman is trying to make up for the fact that it’s 60 degrees out and there’s no snow. If sheer holiday spirit and trimmings (plus a good amount of stage snow) can bring about real December weather, they’re on the road to get us the white Christmas of our dreams. I arrived at the Goodman for the press opening of A Christmas Carol to find the lobby taken over by evergreens, glass balls, and the Benet Academy Madrigal Singers, a choir in Elizabethan dress performing traditional Christmas carols in five-part harmony. It was very effective— coming out...
Catastrophes of the past come back to haunt film with a bad case of Déjà Vu
By James Conway / November 28, 2006
What if you could go back in time and prevent a terrible catastrophe before it started? This age-old question is tackled in a very unchallenging and conventional movie by the Jerry Bruckheimer team that brought audiences other reality-bending existentialist fare including Pearl Harbor and The Rock. Bruckheimer and director Tony Scott tackle a question that baffles theoretical physicists with a Denzel Washington action flick appropriately titled Déjà Vu. The film opens with generic long shots of soldiers returning home on a ferry to New Orleans, reuniting with their families, and elderly grandmothers clutching their grandchildren, when suddenly a little girl...
Bird flocks indoors, proves to be a good migration
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 28, 2006
I was late on the Andrew Bird bandwagon. I only jumped on last spring, after his name had been the main content of excited plans throughout my dorm for months. I saw Bird for the first time last August at Lollapalooza, that shopping mall disguised as a music festival that has recently chosen Grant Park as its home. Bird’s shows are string-heavy—he plays both guitar and violin, as well as xylophone, and also whistles and sings—and he depends on extensive looping since he no longer has the support of his former band, Bowl of Fire. The very nature of an...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Rose Schapiro
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / November 28, 2006
Neko Case: Fox Confessor Brings the Flood Neko Case sings the songs of a sky before the thunderstorm, a building loveliness hammered out by a strong voice. The tracks are all short and without choruses, but not without structure. Case hits the specter of longing and magic straight on, and the characters, all present for such a short time, jump out of the music with astonishing clarity. The record is calm, but with an iron desperation brought on by Case’s well written lyrics and the tense, dense orchestration. Beirut: Gulag Orkestar Though we may be sick of one-man projects with...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Rose Schapiro
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / November 28, 2006
Neko Case: Fox Confessor Brings the Flood Neko Case sings the songs of a sky before the thunderstorm, a building loveliness hammered out by a strong voice. The tracks are all short and without choruses, but not without structure. Case hits the specter of longing and magic straight on, and the characters, all present for such a short time, jump out of the music with astonishing clarity. The record is calm, but with an iron desperation brought on by Case’s well written lyrics and the tense, dense orchestration. Beirut: Gulag Orkestar Though we may be sick of one-man projects with...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Oliver Mosier
By Oliver Mosier / November 28, 2006
Beirut: Gulag Orkestar Beirut is the musical vehicle of Zach Condon, a 20-year-old New Mexico native living in Brooklyn. Gulag Orkestar imaginatively blends the indie and folk music of America with the sounds of Eastern Europe. While it’s not for everyone, Gulag Orkestar is one of the most ambitious albums of the last twenty years. Beirut is not, as some have suggested, the next Neutral Milk Hotel; however, it is very likely that Zach Condon will inherit from Jeff Mangum the title of contemporary music’s most ambitious and independent talent. Bob Dylan: Modern Times He fades in and out of...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Oliver Mosier
By Oliver Mosier / November 28, 2006
Beirut: Gulag Orkestar Beirut is the musical vehicle of Zach Condon, a 20-year-old New Mexico native living in Brooklyn. Gulag Orkestar imaginatively blends the indie and folk music of America with the sounds of Eastern Europe. While it’s not for everyone, Gulag Orkestar is one of the most ambitious albums of the last twenty years. Beirut is not, as some have suggested, the next Neutral Milk Hotel; however, it is very likely that Zach Condon will inherit from Jeff Mangum the title of contemporary music’s most ambitious and independent talent. Bob Dylan: Modern Times He fades in and out of...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Emale Gray
By Emale Gray / November 28, 2006
Beyoncé, B’Day Rather than making more radio-friendly hits such as “Baby Boy” and “Me, Myself, & I,” Beyoncé became even crazier in love, creating the short yet powerful B’Day. Beyoncé screams, yells, growls, and does everything in between on every track, pouring her heart and soul into her lyrics. Standout tracks include “Suga Mama” where the Hillbillies meet Beyoncé as she sings at full force over a funky Jake Wade sample; “Ring the Alarm,” where she openly goes axe-murderer on Jay, proclaiming, “I’ll be damned if I see another chick on your arm”; and the single and radio hit “Irreplaceable,”...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Emale Gray
By Emale Gray / November 28, 2006
Beyoncé, B’Day Rather than making more radio-friendly hits such as “Baby Boy” and “Me, Myself, & I,” Beyoncé became even crazier in love, creating the short yet powerful B’Day. Beyoncé screams, yells, growls, and does everything in between on every track, pouring her heart and soul into her lyrics. Standout tracks include “Suga Mama” where the Hillbillies meet Beyoncé as she sings at full force over a funky Jake Wade sample; “Ring the Alarm,” where she openly goes axe-murderer on Jay, proclaiming, “I’ll be damned if I see another chick on your arm”; and the single and radio hit “Irreplaceable,”...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Eric Benson
By Eric Benson / November 28, 2006
Odean Pope Saxophone Choir, Locked & Loaded: Live at the Blue Note There are few sounds as bounteous as nine saxophones roaring and swooning in joyful unison. Yet it’s the striking precision of this album—the dazzling collective virtuosity of “Prince Lasha” and “Coltrane Time” and the seamless integration and rich performances of guest soloists Michael Brecker, Joe Lovano, and James Carter—that makes it so joyfully engaging. Each track is distinct and nearly perfect, but the Choir’s rendition of “Central Park West” is the album’s finest moment. It conjures the full romantic force of one of Coltrane’s lesser-known gems, and in...
Top 5 Albums of 2006–Ethan Stanislawski
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 28, 2006
The Hold Steady, Boys and Girls of America Craig Finn destroyed any typecasting with this year’s closest thing to a rock masterpiece, Boys and Girls of America. The Hold Steady pays homage to fellow Twin Cities bands of the past, the Replacements and Hüsker Dü. The Replacements comparisons have existed since their heart-on-a-sleeve debut, but with Boys and Girls, the Hold Steady finally gave love to the Minneapolis-based Replacements’ St. Paul rivals. The album’s hazy texture, jaw-dropping melodies, and unexpected eclecticism make this album feel every bit as revolutionary as Hüsker’s Zen Arcade. Boys and Girls serves as a smack...
Out to Lunch—November 28, 2006
By Joann Chen / November 28, 2006
The holidays generally remind me of how much my childhood deviated from the American norm. I can’t remember ever eating apple pie, and my holiday turkeys are usually stuffed with Chinese sticky rice rather than the traditional American stuffing. While I am excited that my family has begun to embrace the turkey and yams, I would be devastated if my grandmother did not make her incredible Eight Treasure Rice dessert to top it all off. Despite the looks of sheer astonishment I get when I say that I’ve never had pumpkin pie, I rather enjoy having a compromise between Chinese...
In Case You Missed It—November 28, 2006
By Brian White / November 28, 2006
It’s a strange, ironic world we live in today. It’s hard to like really popular music without being a tool. It’s hard to like more obscure music without being a conceited waste of space. Everyone has had a conversation with a tool that goes something like this: “Oh my God, don’t you just love Dave Matthews Band? I thought ‘The Space Between’ was just so deep. And they’ve got a violin in the band; isn’t that wild and creative?” No offense to Dave. His music is halfway decent, but most of his fans are just artless freaks who latch onto...
Ben Gest searches for meaning in the mundane
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 28, 2006
The first thing you notice about the photographs of Ben Gest, the artist at the focus of the Renaissance Society’s newest solo exhibition, is that they are confrontational and slightly jolting. Their large size is perhaps the most obvious, although certainly not the only, reason for this: Gest’s finished digital prints tend to measure at least five feet by three and a half feet. The almost showy dimensions magnify the content of Gest’s images and emphasize the importance he wants us to perceive in the moments they depict. These are moments that recur every day: A man eats lunch in...
Ben Gest searches for meaning in the mundane
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 28, 2006
The first thing you notice about the photographs of Ben Gest, the artist at the focus of the Renaissance Society’s newest solo exhibition, is that they are confrontational and slightly jolting. Their large size is perhaps the most obvious, although certainly not the only, reason for this: Gest’s finished digital prints tend to measure at least five feet by three and a half feet. The almost showy dimensions magnify the content of Gest’s images and emphasize the importance he wants us to perceive in the moments they depict. These are moments that recur every day: A man eats lunch in...
Buckethead impossibly good, unfathomably weird
By Pat Skahill / November 28, 2006
Buckethead, one of underground rock’s most eccentric and highly acclaimed avant-garde guitarists, has been lighting up the world of hyper-speed shred metal since the early 1990s. Starting out as the masked axe-swinger for the bay area–based band the Deli Creeps, Buckethead (aka Brian Caroll) quickly established himself as one of the world’s premiere guitarists via impeccable technique and an uncanny aptitude for producing face-melting riffs. Perpetually sporting his signature white kabuki mask and his famous Kentucky Fried Chicken bucket hat, the masked guitar virtuoso recently concluded a nationwide tour in promotion of his latest album, Crime Slunk Scene. Beautifully engaging...
MAB gives U of C students a dose of Common sense
By Emale Gray / November 21, 2006
Phrases such as “I have a dream” and “an eye for an eye makes the whole word blind” inspired thousands of people to enlist in social movements and challenge the standards of society. On Saturday, November 18, Chicago’s own revolutionary rapper Common returned to his home to start his own faction of disciples and impress some common sense onto the University of Chicago. The Basement Party began on a dimly lit stage, with the DJ spinning a sample reminiscent of Chicago nightlife. Suddenly, accompanied by a stream of bright lights, Common burst onto the stage, sporting a gray Adidas sweatshirt...
There’s nothing fishy about Primus’s extended solos at Aragon Ballroom
By Pat Skahill / November 21, 2006
OK, let’s see: giant inflatable astronauts? Check. A 30-something ex–band camp aficionado red-faced and rocking out on the tuba? Check. Head-banging banjo solos for the 15-year-old shirtless kids to mosh out to? Check. For good measure, let’s add in the relentless chant “Primus sucks!” emanating in perfect unison from an audience where mohawk- laden Slayer disciples and Abercrombie-wearing Dave Matthews buffs can coexist, and you’ll pretty much be convinced that Primus shows are weird. Touring for the first time since 2004, oddball bass virtuoso Les Claypool has finally taken a break from his recent slew of side projects (Frog Brigade,...
Folk legend fills Empty Bottle with top-shelf classics
By Ben Nelson / November 21, 2006
Making a rare U.S. appearance, the legendary Scottish folksinger Bert Jansch played an excellent set at the Empty Bottle on Friday night as part of “Three Million Tongues,” a festival highlighting experimental folk and psychedelic music. A founding member of the British folk group Pentangle, Jansch’s career as a solo artist goes back to 1965. His gruff voice, understated and heartfelt songwriting, and interpretations of traditional folk songs have lost none of their power over four decades. What has truly earned Jansch his reputation, though, is his remarkable acoustic guitar playing. His finger-picking style, intricate but never showy or over-elaborate,...
Almodóvar returns in style, but forgets substance
By Sara Raftery / November 21, 2006
Penélope Cruz wears too much makeup. This is a scientific fact. But it’s okay; Too much makeup goes great with cleavage you can land a plane in. Those are the most cogent thoughts I could put together after watching Volver, Pedro Almodóvar’s latest outing starring the lovely Ms. Cruz. It’s not that the brilliance of Volver has robbed me of speech; rather, I don’t quite know what to say about a film that is fundamentally flawed on the emotional, structural, and sensory levels. At least on that last level, Almodóvar gets something right. The film, set in Madrid and the...
Jay-Z enters golden years
By Dmitri Leybman / November 21, 2006
Jay-Z’s new album Kingdom Come was inevitable. I don’t know of a single person who truly took the rapper at his word when he announced his retirement. It was a little like when Michael Jordan retired for the first time: You knew he’d come back. Competitive people like Jay can’t sit idly and watch the world pass them by. The impetus that pushes someone to spend their every waking moment fixated on some object, whether it is playing, shooting hoops, or in Jay-Z’s case, rapping, rarely wanes. For Jay, his retirement never really ever took effect. He still continued to...
Out to Lunch—November 21, 2006
By Joann Chen / November 21, 2006
College is about delayed gratification. We convince ourselves that our physics problem sets and sociology readings will one day magically transform into some measurable form of happiness. This is nowhere more evident than at the U of C, where we flaunt our daily tragedies as proof of our inevitable joy. Though I admit that this logic has plenty of practical value, I find some of its results completely absurd. First and foremost is our ridiculous obsession with denying ourselves the ecstasy of good food in hopes of achieving that mythical size zero figure. As finals week approaches and those daily...
In Case You Missed It—November 21, 2006
By Brian White / November 21, 2006
This week, I decided to focus exclusively on one of my favorite unrecognized directors. I apologize for the lack of diversity, but it’s hard to justify anything less for the magnificent failure of a human being that is Uwe Boll. Movies: The Works of Uwe Boll (1991–Present) Sadists have all the fun. And, in one way or another, we’re all sadists. It’s our inner psychology’s proverbial reach-around for our violent relationship with life in general. Somewhere, deep inside of every human, there is a part of us that delights in violence, gore, and all those other wonderfully awful things that...
Oasis turn back time with new best-of compilation
By Salom Teshale / November 21, 2006
I seem to have time-travelled back to 1995. O.J. Simpson is telling us all how, if he had done it, how he did it, Britpop is topping the charts, and Oasis has come out with an album. It’s even called Stop the Clocks, which is clearly a reference to the W.H. Auden poem that John Hannah read in the film with the weddings and the funeral—you know, Hugh Grant was in it…came out last year… Well, it’s not exactly 1995. O.J. will say nothing new, Britpop is nothing new, and the Oasis album, Stop the Clocks, is nothing new. More...
Linklater changes course with Fast Food Nation
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 17, 2006
Richard Linklater has always been hard to pin down. His early ’90s left-field classics Slacker and Dazed and Confused stand in stark contrast to his more recent Hollywood cash cows School of Rock and Bad News Bears, but he has still maintained his indie sensibilities with films like Waking Life and Before Sunset. 2006 may have been Linklater’s highest profile year, as he has released two highly anticipated movies: an adaptation of Philip K. Dick’s A Scanner Darkly and a fictionalized account of Eric Schlosser’s bestseller Fast Food Nation. I met with Linklater in the penthouse suite of the Four...
Atom Egoyan introduces jarring and strikingly personal new film at Doc
By Rob Weisenberger / November 17, 2006
Atom Egoyan really is having trouble with the auto focus. The Academy Award–nominated director, whose film, Citadel, held its American premier on campus last Thursday as part of the Chicago Presidential Fellows in the Arts Series, is still “working things out” with his new handheld camera. But it’s worth bearing with him as he documents his wife’s first return to Lebanon since the civil war 28 years ago in a travel journal addressed to his then 10-year-old son. “This trip was full of events and details you’ll never remember when you’re old enough to watch this,” Egoyan explains in his...
Filmore gives portrait of the artist as a Young man
By Oliver Mosier / November 17, 2006
The wait is over. After years of anticipation, fans of Neil Young can finally put a face on his early years as a solo act. Live at the Fillmore East marks the first volume in what should be many releases as part of Young’s archives series. On the album, Young plays a raw and astounding set with Crazy Horse at Bill Graham’s Fillmore East in New York City. With searing versions of “Down by the River” and “Cowgirl in the Sand,” Young and Crazy Horse blew the doors off the Fillmore. A bootleg of these sets circulated for years under...
Game silences critics with strong sophomore album
By Dmitri Leybman / November 17, 2006
For someone who isn’t even on Doctor’s Advocate, Dr. Dre gets mentioned on The Game’s new album more often than any other person. In practically every other song, The Game finds another way to simultaneously pay tribute to the mega-producer who made him a star, while emphasizing the fact that it was more than just success by association. The Game’s first album, The Documentary, was a fantastic reminder of the kind of energy that only a debut album can produce, where the artist has nothing to lose and everything to gain, and in which every track hast to mean something...
If I reviewed O.J.’s book, here is how it would go
By Tim Murphy / November 17, 2006
For many Americans, O.J. Simpson is a living fossil from a bygone era when a famous athlete going to trial for double homicide was still a novelty and a white Ford Bronco was still an acceptable form of transportation. Fortunately for book reviewers everywhere, O.J. is not one of these people. Boldly going where no homicidal Heisman winner has gone before, Simpson’s new book explores in-depth questions such as “how I did it” and “what was up with all the blood?” Aptly titled If I Did It, Simpson does more than simply cross a 5,000-year-old societal line saying that murder...
Hotel Cassiopeia baffles with hollow symbolism
By Kat Glass / November 17, 2006
Court Theater’s Hotel Cassiopeia opens with a man sitting at a plain wooden desk, his back to the audience, left heel raised, fingers on his temple. Director Anne Bogart liked this image so much, in fact, that she put the actor on stage as the audience entered the theater. When the actor returns to the same position about halfway through the play and then again toward the end, I couldn’t help but wonder if anything had actually happened. Playwright Charles Mee wrote Hotel Cassiopeia as the second in a quartet of pieces that examine American artists. He looks at Joseph...
STD (Stuff to Do)—November 17, 2006
By Eric Benson / November 17, 2006
Friday / November 17 Trio Mediaeval, the much-lauded Scandinavian threesome, brings its precise interpretations of early choral works to Rockefeller Chapel. The trio will present early Norwegian songs and mediaeval carols with characteristic austerity, promising the kind of transcendent experience that only fine choral music in a cavernous stone hall can provide. (Rockefeller Chapel, 8 p.m., $11 student, $30 general) Music, film, and circus will flock to Hutch Commons for Reorientation, a festival of Chicago arts and culture. The evening will feature Josh Carter of the Smoking Pipes, Davey Von Bohlen of Maritime, a performance by U of C’s own...
Decemberists, crowd find perfect rapport at Riviera
By Oliver Mosier / November 14, 2006
Is he drunk? What’s he going to do next? This is all I could think about during the beginning of The Decemberists’ Saturday night performance at the Riviera Theatre. Lead singer Colin Meloy appeared to be in a good place. Instead of opting for short and succinct Jeff Tweedy–esque audience banter, he would go into stream-of-consciousness rants before realizing that the people had come for the music. Meloy’s affability made the show immensely entertaining, and at times nothing short of completely hilarious. As amusing as Meloy was, audience participation defined the evening. At one point during the song “16 Military...
OK Go falters under pressure of newfound popularity at Logan Square
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 14, 2006
OK Go are victim of an unfortunate fate these days. They are getting more buzz, playing better venues, and making music videos with dancing that makes everyone on your floor jealous. At the same time, though, their crowds are decreasing in age and increasing in bad taste. Their concert last Friday night at Logan Square Auditorium was a case in point. Despite the connotations that a high school assembly might carry with it, the Auditorium is far classier than the Metro, where I saw OK Go play last year. The more expansive stage and the curtained, arched windows are far...
Legend, Thicke consecrate Riviera with soul
By Emale Gray / November 14, 2006
When was the last time you had a spiritual experience? Was it during church? Talking with a close friend? Listening to motivational music? On Thursday, November 9, the Riviera Theatre was the church and the preachers were singers Robin Thicke and John Legend, encouraging musical atheists to drop to their knees and throw their hands up in praise. John Legend has already established himself as a soulful choir member singing secular music. However, in Thicke’s own words, why would Legend “let the little white boy open up for him?” The answer was revealed as soon as Thicke began the introductory...
Out to Lunch—November 14, 2006
By Joann Chen / November 14, 2006
Although I can proudly say that I have never owned a Confederate flag and that all of my belt buckles are of a reasonable size, I will admit that I am in many ways a typical Texan. I use “y’all” constantly, and there is a small, slightly deaf part of my heart that belongs to the musical genius of George Strait. Although I have trained my food tastes reach beyond the confines of the Texas beef-based diet, the Texan in me shines through in my thorough distaste for sashimi (raw fish). I find nothing less appealing than the bright red...
Quartet adjusts at Mandel
By Alexander Coppock / November 14, 2006
It was a “make the most of it night” at Mandel Hall last Friday. The Emerson Quartet, widely hailed as the best chamber ensemble performing today, came to the University of Chicago a member short. Their viola player, Lawrence Dutton, recently underwent rotator cuff surgery and is now on medical leave from the quartet. What to do? Well, Mozart wrote a nice trio for violin, viola, and cello—maybe one of you violinists can handle the viola? And hey David, isn’t your wife a pianist? I don’t know, let’s do some Brahms. A piano quartet, yeah, that’s it. No cancellations, refunds,...
In Case You Missed It—November 14, 2006
By Brian White / November 14, 2006
I’m just going to jump straight into it this week. I’ll start with a solid down-home tale based on the work of a Chicago alumnus, then finish off with a slightly obscure, well reviewed, well liked, yet hopelessly pointless heap of a movie. In Español! A River Runs Through It (1992) No one wants to live in Montana. What would barely buy you a tiny condo on Michigan Avenue will buy you a mansion and 30 acres in Montana. Your nearest neighbor is probably several miles away, and the largest city, Billings, barely qualifies as a “large” city in most...
Venus shakes it up at UT
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / November 14, 2006
Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present the most grotesque, the most unusual, the most unbelievable, the most astonishing show ever to come out of the great production machinery of University Theater (UT)! Seriously, though, UT’s production of Venus by Suzan-Lori Parks is atypical in many ways. The play centers on the true story of an African girl who was brought to Britain in the early 1800s and put on public display as the “Hottentot Venus.” People gathered from all over to gawk and even prod at her supposedly oversized buttocks and genitalia. She was later brought to Paris for...
Forster’s Fiction is strange—but not in a good way
By Matt Johnston / November 10, 2006
Stranger Than Fiction quivers in the shadow of much greater work. It is one of these potentially fascinating meta-narratives, the story of a man (Will Ferrell) who one days hears a voice (Emma Thompson) narrating his life. The voice is Karen Eiffel, a distinguished author, and the man is Harold Crick, the hero of her upcoming novel. The two occupy the same world, even though one is the creation of the other. The clearest influence here is 2002’s Adaptation. Now, that was a fascinating meta-narrative. It documented its own creation by making real-life screenwriter Charlie Kaufman the main character. A...
Naked Raygun is burnt out, but rekindles old hometown flame at Riot Fest
By Echo Gonzalez / November 10, 2006
“Sweet home Chicago! Check, check, check,” blared a member of the crew preparing the Congress Theater stage for The Effigies. This year, Riot Fest attracted hep Chicagoans and seasoned scenesters as well as diehard punks from across the nation. The carefully planned bill listed such impressive acts as The Bollweevils, Youth Brigade, 7Seconds, and Chicago’s own legendary Naked Raygun, which had not played a show since 1997. Despite the intimidating array of mohawks and leering pixies, the warmth of the atmosphere was palpable. It didn’t stem solely from steaming moshers’ bodies either. “This year, there’s a new sense of camaraderie,”...
Loitering—November 10, 2006
By Echo Gonzalez / November 10, 2006
In the heart of Wicker Park, on North Avenue and Honore, sits a colorful little Mexican restaurant and lounge called Las Palmas. A family business, its focus is on the quality of the cuisine as well as on its contribution to the community. Patrons can come here to hold a celebration, request catering, drink at the bar, dine, or grab brunch with friends. The atmosphere is enchanting, and the service is charming. Upon entering the restaurant, my mother and I were immediately faced with a large ebony counter, which was ornamented with a fireplace, gaudy Day of the Dead trinkets,...
Studio 60 deserves praise, but will audiences follow?
By Oliver Mosier / November 10, 2006
I’ve never smoked crack cocaine, so I may not really be in the proper element to appreciate the genius of Aaron Sorkin during his work on The West Wing. However, now that Sorkin appears to be clean, I feel all right writing about his new series, Studio 60 On the Sunset Strip. While many cast members from the Bartlett administration are now on Studio 60 and many similarities exist between the two shows, it is overly simplistic to label Studio 60 as merely The West Wing Goes to Hollywood. Studio 60 gives the viewer an inside perspective on a Saturday...
Kidman finds beauty in freakish, fantastic Fur
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 10, 2006
Confession: When I took Media Aesthetics my first year, I was a little under-impressed by my experience with the class. The discussion wasn’t the best, and A Winter’s Tale was sub-par Shakespeare. But then came my Critical Perspectives English class this quarter, and my intrigue with the relationship between the signifier and the signified has been re-ignited. And then I saw Fur: An Imaginary Portrait of Diane Arbus, Steven Shainberg’s newest film, and all I want to think about ever again is the process we use to look at other people and things. This movie succeeds because it is an...
Zimmerman excels again with creative Argonautika
By William Chyr / November 10, 2006
Perhaps the best way to describe Mary Zimmerman’s adaptation of Argonautika at Lookingglass Theatre is to say that it is, well… Zimmermanesque. For those of you who’ve seen her works before, you know very well what I mean. And for those of you who haven’t, you can certainly expect a production that is both innovative and elaborate. Following the quest of Jason, played by Ryan Artzburger, and his crew of heroes for the Golden Fleece, Argonautika is a tale that involves sea monsters, magic spells, fire-breathing bulls, and many other fascinating creatures and objects along those lines. You’re probably wondering...
K-Fed can’t even fail well in pissed-off performance
By Tim Murphy / November 10, 2006
Kevin Federline owes me $27.50. Growing up, I always thought Shaquille O’Neill had set an untouchable standard for hip-hop futility. In his 1994 classic, Shaq Fu, he rhymed about such salient issues as Mr. Miyagi, Ivan Drago, and cream cheese on bagels while setting an unofficial record for the least original beats on a studio album. Wednesday night’s featured artist at House of Blues changed everything. Performing in front of a surprisingly packed house, Federline managed to pull off the remarkable: He disappointed a crowd that had come for no other reason than to watch him implode. For a man...
STD (Stuff to Do)—November 10, 2006
By Eric Benson / November 10, 2006
Friday / November 10 Classical music ensembles usually don’t have to worry about losing members to injury, but the Emerson Quartet faced that very predicament after violist Lawrence Dutton went down with a torn rotator cuff. While Dutton rehabs from surgery, the group has added pianist Wu Han, allowing listeners to hear a different repertoire that features piano concerti and smaller chamber pieces. The eight-time Grammy Award–winning quartet will be performing works by Mozart and Brahms at Mandel Hall in what promises to be an elegantly-realized performance. (Mandel Hall, 8 p.m., $11 student, $30 general) Schola Antiqua, an early music...
With nothing left to prove, the Who still keeps it fresh with Endless Wire
By Oliver Mosier / November 7, 2006
If Ringo Starr and Paul McCartney decided to make a new Beatles album, chances are you’d dismiss it as ridiculous and in no way connected to their previous brilliance. However, that is exactly what Pete Townshend and Roger Daltrey have done for The Who. With half the band now deceased, Townshend and Daltrey returned to the studio for Endless Wire. Endless Wire is The Who’s first album since 1982’s It’s Hard. On that album, the band was already without Keith Moon, the legendary drummer and hotel room menace who died in 1978. Some believe that The Who died with Keith...
UT turns on Ghostlight
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / November 7, 2006
“We have these two very beautiful people alone in a dark theater, and it’s stormy outside,” said director Michael Stevens, on the premise of Ghostlight, by David Alford. Two actors, waiting for their absent director, interact tensely with each other and an unusually creepy rehearsal space. When the director arrives, however, the tension is not lifted as expected, but only begins to increase exponentially, as does the unsettling sense that something, or everything, is amiss. The play is not only set in a theater, but much of the dialogue is about theater, providing for some interesting choices and challenges in...
In Case You Missed It—November 7, 2006
By Brian White / November 7, 2006
No long introduction here, I’m just going to dive right into two amazing, yet neglected, works. Books: The Dark Knight Returns (1986) Batman gets all the love. Seriously, who really likes Superman? He’s too distant, too strong, too…well…super. Spiderman? He has real-world problems but at least he still has superpowers. When asked about his favorite superhero, when was the last time you heard someone say the Hulk? But with all this, when was the last time anyone ever picked up a Batman comic? I shudder when I think that someone’s knowledge of Batman might be based almost solely on Batman...
Evolution helps Thicke survive as R & B’s fittest
By Emale Gray / November 7, 2006
“Chicken noodle soup! Chicken noodle soup! Chicken noodle soup with a soda on the side!” These are the type of mind-numbing lyrics in rotation on some of the nation’s top radio stations, and the monotonous rhythms (a.k.a. “hot beats”) they are coupled with are questionable as well. With these White Castle burgers being played constantly, it’s obviously hard for artists with actual talent to gain airplay. Artists either have to give their music a drastic makeover to attract attention or sell out to the (idiotic) demands of popular culture just to keep their recording contracts. “These record companies want a...
Out to Lunch—November 7, 2006
By Joann Chen / November 7, 2006
Sixth week seems to be that time of the quarter when absolutely no one is in a good mood. Especially in autumn quarter, when the pessimism of the imminent winter sets in, and what is left of our energy and enthusiasm slowly fades during midterms. A glimmer of joy returns, however, in the grace of the weekend after. Midterms are more or less done, and procrastination can resume without consequence for at least another week and a half. It was in this spirit of celebration that I decided this past weekend to let my hair down—really let loose. I was...
Voxtrot wins fans over through awkward—but winsome—live act
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / November 7, 2006
Something about seeing Voxtrot makes me wish that they had gone to my high school. They are a band full of Duckies from Pretty in Pink, adorable and gawky and unafraid, though always a little bit apologetic. You might not have heard of Voxtrot, but you probably will. They are a quintet from Austin, Texas who have been touring on the success of two EPs released over the past year. The first was a self-titled jaunt that oscillated between delightfully manic desperation and clichéd depression (albeit expressed with a pleasant eloquence). Voxtrot alternates between catchy and sharp, usually with enough...
Acrobatic adaptation animates Lifeline show
By Lisbeth Redfield / November 7, 2006
Forget long dresses, longer landscape shots, and repressed, “meaningful” conversations: Christina Calvit’s adaptation of E.M. Forster’s 1908 novel, A Room With a View, is like Valentine’s Day come early, a welcome breath of romance and fun. The contemplative novel, with its many characters and picturesque landscapes, really does come to life on the stage, animated by the Lifeline ensemble and guests to a frothy, charming whole. The Lifeline Theatre company is a secret of the North Side; finding their little brick theatre requires taking the Red Line nearly to Howard, but the result is well worth it. Founded in 1983,...
UT wanders into despair in original production
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / November 3, 2006
Wander Standing is one student work that cannot be criticized for being too timid. Written by fourth-year Martyna Majok and directed by Morven Higgins, the play portrays some of the most disturbing manifestations of human hardship, exploring the ways in which traumatic events and conditions affect characters individually and in their relationships. The play begins with a seemingly simple dispute between a mother and daughter. Layer after layer of alarming history and circumstance is revealed until everything spirals into desperation. It’s then that the girl, Magda, makes one last attempt to reclaim something of her identity and a chance at...
Mixed bag with Simone, Malajube releases
By Supriya Sinhababu / November 3, 2006
Halloween marked the release of both Remixed and Re-Imagined, a compilation of Nina Simone songs, and Malajube’s Trompe-L’oeil. While the former album chronicles the costume changes of 13 choice Simone tracks engineered by producers of varying talent, Malajube goes for a more come-as-you-are approach, in spite of how critics have attempted to hype the band. The Re-Imagined part in the title of the Nina Simone compilation may be a bit of an overstatement. The majority of Simone’s recordings are covers in the first place—this compilation includes everyone from the Beatles to the Bee Gees. Therefore, Simone’s recordings are generally best...
STD (Stuff to Do)—November 3, 2006
By Eric Benson / November 3, 2006
Friday / November 3 Broken Bride, the hot UT event of the week, is a half hour–long rock opera that features dragons, zombies, demons, and a heartwarming love story. Tickets have been going fast, and if you’re looking for a rollicking good time late Friday night, the bonus 11 p.m. show should be an excellent choice. Wander Standing, the first student-written work at UT this year, also goes up this week. (First Floor Theater, Reynolds Club, Broken Bride: 10 p.m., 11 p.m., Wander Standing: 8 p.m., $6, also November 4) Facets Cinémathèque, one of Chicago’s best art-house theaters, presents a...
Live Tweedy DVD not quite a Treasure trove
By Elizabeth Goetz / November 3, 2006
One thing I will admit about Jeff Tweedy: This guy is clever, or at least he thinks he is. I just watched Sunken Treasure: Jeff Tweedy Live in the Pacific Northwest, a film of Tweedy’s experiences on the road last February, just a few weeks prior to his solo gig in Mandel Hall, and it seems like Tweedy talks almost as much as he sings. And let’s face it, Tweedy is a hot commodity not because he’s a smart ass, but because he sings about being in love in ways that seem so much more intriguing than any relationship you’ve...
Once Again, Legend is merely pedestrian
By Dmitri Leybman / November 3, 2006
Before John Legend released Get Lifted, his 2004 Grammy Award–winning album, he was a studio musician, providing piano and vocal work for the likes of Lauryn Hill, Jay-Z, and Alicia Keys. Impressive connections and formidable talent led Legend to a recording deal with Kanye West’s fledgling label, G.O.O.D. Music. Once at G.O.O.D., Legend began working on his first major studio album, attempting to create the kind of catchy R & B that would appeal to a diverse audience. The result was an album that managed to combine rap, gospel, soul, R&B, and even alternative rock in a collection of songs...
Reeling rolls in its 25th anniversary year with diverse programming
By Matt Zakosek / November 3, 2006
Reeling: The Chicago Lesbian and Gay International Film Festival has come a long way, baby. The second-oldest queer film festival in the country (after San Francisco’s) turns 25 this year, and it is recognizing its roots with a smattering of experimental programming like the kind it showed “back in the day.” But more on that later. After opening night, the most exciting event is the screening of Colma: The Musical at Landmark’s Century Centre Cinema (2828 North Clark Street) tonight at 9:30 p.m. My choice for the best film in this year’s festival is the story of three friends—two hetero,...
Borat make funny glorious nation of U.S. and A.
By Eric Benson / November 3, 2006
Part road movie, part absurdist documentary, Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan is an outrageous travelogue, celebrating the sideshows of our American carnival with wit and showmanship. This is not a new project, but rather a culmination for Borat Sagdiyev, the British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen’s hopelessly aloof Kazakh television reporter. In the film, Borat’s humor—a mixture of provocative social critique and scatological slapstick—is given more space and goes further than in his appearances on HBO’s Da Ali G Show. We remain in Borat’s world of outrageous interviews with unsuspecting members of the public,...
Out to Lunch—October 31, 2006
By Joann Chen / October 31, 2006
Going to college about 1,000 miles away from home has taught me to truly appreciate my mother. She is an unbelievably anal woman who can somehow list the dates of each of her three children’s yearly dental appointments off the top of her head. She might be just short of obsessive-compulsive, but I can’t imagine the chaos our family would fall into without her. Though I hate to admit it, I seem to have inherited this habit of meticulously planning the future from my mother. I regularly update my spreadsheet of classes I plan to take for the next two...
Controversy meets moral Death in neo-documentary
By Matt Johnston / October 31, 2006
Buried beneath a lot of bluster and controversy, there is a worthwhile movie called Death of a President. If you know anything about it, you know that it portrays the assassination of George W. Bush. But when it comes to the key passage, there is no sense of exploitation. I can imagine that this began as an intriguing idea for a story rather than as a publicity stunt. And why shouldn’t filmmakers be able to examine a world in which a president—or even The President—is shot? Our nation has witnessed four such assassinations. The discussion of a hypothetical fifth does...
Flogging Molly takes no prisoners, but also leaves no man behind
By Liz Egan / October 31, 2006
Flogging Molly filled the Riviera with a sea of green-clad, Guinness-drinking, jig-dancing Irish last Friday night. Or at least in spirit, everyone was Irish; when the entire crowd responded with affirmative enthusiasm to lead singer Dave King’s poll of the audience for Irish blood in the house, he replied in his hearty Irish drawl, “I’d like to see those DNA tests, eh!” Well, kiss me, Dave King—I am Irish! The seven-member Irish punk-rock outfit enlisted three openers to get the crowd revved up, but it’s hard to pay attention to the opening bands when all you want to do is...
Dylan keeps “rollin’ and tumblin'” with fresh set
By Dan Bulla / October 31, 2006
In 1961, Bob Dylan took what turned out to be a decisive step in his career when he left Chicago and headed to New York City. As he describes this pivotal moment in his autobiography, Dylan pays tribute to the capital of the Midwest in a single, sneering phrase when he says that he got “straight out of Chicago, clearing the hell out of there.” Fortunately for the good people of Chicago, Bob Dylan was back this weekend to play two shows at the Sears Centre as part of a tour promoting the release of Modern Times, his first album...
In Case You Missed It—October 31, 2006
By Brian White / October 31, 2006
Let’s get one thing straight: Citizen Kane is really boring. I recognize that it is one of the greatest movies ever, a defining moment in cinema history. I recognize that without Citizen Kane, movies wouldn’t be anything like they are now. I recognize that almost everything about every movie since Citizen Kane stole something from Citizen Kane—be it the camera angles, the shooting style, the crazy timeline, or the surprise twist ending. But in a world where movies without at least half a dozen high-powered weapons, three car chases, and 37 scenes of sexuality will elicit yawns, Citizen Kane is,...
Zombies, dragons at UT
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / October 31, 2006
Zombies attack villagers. A dragon ravages the Earth. A man trying to save his wife is flung into a dinosaur-infested past. This seems like a reasonable premise for a rock-opera EP by Ludo, a power-pop band from St. Louis, but what about for a curtains-and-cubes show in the first floor theater of Reynolds? If you are director Paul Bruton, it most certainly is. Paul saw the band perform Broken Bride last October and was struck by the music instantly. In March, when he was considering the sort of show he would like to direct, he realized that the answer had...
Lights burn bright for NBC with new sports drama
By Emerald Gao / October 27, 2006
Growing up in the California suburbs, near De La Salle, a Catholic boys’ high school that boasted one of the best football teams in the nation, I was exposed early on to the idiosyncratic, sometimes horrifying culture of high school football. To everyone in the area, the program’s success seemed like an expected occurrence. It wasn’t until the movie Friday Night Lights came out in 2004 that I realized there was a whole other side of the coin: The rural football culture of Texas, as documented by the film, was just as foreign to me as the traditions surrounding De...
Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra makes comeback with canonical classics
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / October 27, 2006
Flatly boring and lazily played, the first half of the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra’s (SPCO) Sunday afternoon performance put me to sleep. We heard Bach’s Concerto in D minor for Two Violins, a piece that occupies the top spot on any Classical Music for Dummies disc and Darius Milhaud’s “La Création du Monde,” a lackluster import of ’20s jazz to the orchestral format. Let’s chalk up the first half to bad programming, because the SPCO really can play. Orchestras often plan jazz programs, and it’s tough to tell if they’re just pandering to some broader audience or if they genuinely...
UT packs four plays into creative week of theater
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / October 27, 2006
When the directors of the four shows in UT’s Fall Workshop Week were asked what impetus there was for combining these shows, they agreed that there was no particular reason at all. There is no common theme; each director simply chose to direct what interested them most. The result is a string of unrelated plays, each somewhere around twenty to forty minutes in length, and a uniquely engaging theater experience. Each of the four plays stands entirely on its own. After the actors from each performance take their bows, the stage goes dark, and there is some brief scuffling to...
STD (Stuff to Do)—October 27, 2006
By Eric Benson / October 27, 2006
Friday, October 27 In the summer of 2005, a group of seasoned U of C filmmakers shot a wildly ambitious feature-length project entitled Crime Fiction. Over the next year and a half, they spent countless hours editing and promoting the film, which boasts not only the Herculean efforts of the Crime Fiction team, but also a professional cast with credits that include The Aviator, “The Daily Show,” and Steppenwolf. Now, it’s time for the much-anticipated sneak preview at the IFP Midwest Filmmakers Summit. The movie—the tale of a hapless novelist who scores a smash hit after his girlfriend is “mysteriously”...
Loitering—October 27, 2006
By Echo Gonzalez / October 27, 2006
It was a gray October day and I was in search of a live Naked Raygun CD. I had a few of their studio-produced albums, but wanted something more dirty and visceral to add to my collection. Hyde Park Records and a few North Side shops had all failed to come through, which wasn’t surprising, as the band is local and broke up in 1992. As I walked dejectedly back to my apartment from the #6 bus stop, I noticed little Dr. Wax, planted on the east side of Harper Court. Blaring French hip-hop and countless sexy posters on the...
The Prestige’s tricks dazzle, but final twist flops
By Matt Johnston / October 24, 2006
“Are you watching closely?” So asks Michael Caine in another of his meaty performances, this time as Cutter, an engineer of magical illusions in the Belle Epoque period piece The Prestige. Cutter is not precisely at the top of the game, but only because there is no top: In his business, a horrible mishap can occur at any time, especially when the Professor and the Great Danton, two competing magicians played with energy by Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman, respectively, frequently sabotage one another’s acts. Directing/screenwriting team Christopher and Jonathan Nolan knows better than to attempt to wow us, the...
Marie Antoinette may be pretty in pink, but Coppola film lacks complete palette
By Nathalie Gorman / October 24, 2006
About halfway through Sofia Coppola’s Marie Antoinette, I realized that I wasn’t sitting through a film, but an experience. As pink cake after pink cake, pink shoe after pink shoe, and gorgeous pink dress after gorgeous pink dress flashed across the screen, I began to wonder if even the air at Versailles was a bit pink. The delicious visuals mixed with the intriguing tale of a young queen’s growth should have combined to create a film as satisfying as the pastries it showcased, but Coppola was so concerned with making her story pretty that she forgot to give it pace....
Out to Lunch—October 24, 2006
By Joann Chen / October 24, 2006
On this campus, it is not just the impending winter that makes the days seem shorter. Somehow, between the research assistant jobs, the RSO responsibilities, and the inevitable demands of classes, 24 hours fall far short of what’s needed to get everything done, even when only four of those hours are devoted to sleep. While we have all accustomed ourselves to the constant lack of sleep, what still surprises me is how willing we are to sacrifice meals for the sake of these other obligations. Is it not amazing that a few months of Plato and calculus can persuade us...
In Case You Missed It—October 24, 2006
By Brian White / October 24, 2006
There’s no easy way to say this, so I’m just going to say it: I watch chick flicks. I maintain that I am still a heterosexual male, and I also maintain that I have good taste. But my mission here is to expose forgotten or overlooked gems, and I’d be lax in my duty if I didn’t briefly touch on the main reason most people will ignore a work of art: genre-phobia. Too often, people refuse to even consider a movie, a TV show, a book, or an album simply because they’re not fans of a certain genre—be it chick...
Nothing rotten in Victory Gardens’s Denmark
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 24, 2006
Perhaps the most exciting thing about the Victory Gardens’s newest play, Denmark, is not the play itself, but the opening of the Victory Gardens’s new Biograph theater, just down the street from their old location on Lincoln Avenue. In an age when simply paying the rent can be too much of a challenge for a regional theater, VG’s long-standing artistic director Dennis Zacek and his wife have opened up a gorgeous, $11.4 million renovated theater. The artistic focus of the theater hasn’t changed, as it still is dedicated to producing new works by ensemble playwrights in an intimate theatrical setting....
Yarr…Pirate Queen masters set sail on tired path
By Lisbeth Redfield / October 20, 2006
The math is bizarre but accurate: Les Mis plus Riverdance plus Wicked somehow yields pirates. Walk down Randolph toward the river and you will be greeted by the very blue posters for Alain Boublil and Claude-Michel Schönberg’s new (pre-Broadway, if you please) musical The Pirate Queen, which explores the dramatic possibilities in the legend of Irish pirate Grace O’Malley. The quality of the production team is just about the highest money can buy. Author/composer team Boublil and Schönberg are legends in their own time for their epic and wildly popular operatic musicals Les Misérables and Miss Saigon. Commissioners and producers...
New exhibit looks to the family at Art Institute
By Nora Vallerini / October 20, 2006
Photography plays a role in all of our lives. It allows us to capture a moment, a place, or people. Photos provide tangible complements to our memories, which, when strung together, tell a story. The five artists featured in the exhibit So the Story Goes at the Art Institute of Chicago use very personal photographs to tell their stories. Tina Barney, Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Nan Goldin, Sally Mann, and Larry Sultan each have a unique style and story. Yet the themes they cover, such as family, are not unique. The first artist exhibited, Tina Barney, focuses on capturing her family and...
Stanko smolders, HotHouse only lukewarm
By Eric Benson / October 20, 2006
The Tomasz Stanko Quartet walked onto the stage Wednesday night with characteristic poise and quiet intensity. This was perhaps the biggest stop on their 12-city American tour—Poland’s greatest jazz group playing to a crowd of eager countrymen in the most Polish of U.S. cities. The Quartet’s appearance at the HotHouse a year and a half ago was a riveting night of powerful yet sparse music. The jam-packed club would erupt in joy after each solo, and at the end of the night, the audience showered the group with one of the most genuine and awestruck ovations I’ve ever seen. It...
Civic hero Diddy grows on new CD
By Emale Gray / October 20, 2006
Whether you want to call him Puff Daddy, Puffy, Sean John or simply Diddy, Sean Combs has revolutionized the music scene in many ways that may not be obvious to the naked eye. Music was Diddy’s platform to launch a business empire that now includes a movie production company, two restaurants, MTV’s Making the Band, a snazzy clothing line, and much more. All of this combined with his donations to charities, his participation in the New York City Marathon, his memorable Vote or Die campaign, and the aid he has given to sweatshop workers in Honduras has won him the...
STD (Stuff to Do)—October 20, 2006
By Eric Benson / October 20, 2006
Friday, October 20 Christmas Eve is rarely fodder for absurdist dark comedy. Leave it to 2005 Nobel Laureate Harold Pinter to transform that silent night into a Kafkaesque tale of a government psychiatric hospital gone awry in The Hothouse. A Red Orchid Theater plans a six-week run for the show, but there’s no time to catch it like the first night of previews—and none cheaper. A Red Orchid Theater, 1531 North Wells Street, 8 p.m., $10, through December 3) Off-Off Campus, the U of C’s improv and sketch comedy outfit, premieres their newest revue Detour de Force on the second...
Xzibit’s struggle to gain fame comes Full Circle
By Dmitri Leybman / October 20, 2006
Most people probably know Xzibit as the host of MTV’s popular show Pimp My Ride, a program devoted to the idea that makeovers are not just for people. Cars need them too. Perhaps it’s because of the show’s vast popularity and Xzibit’s ability to effortlessly play the role of the entertaining host that people have forgotten why he became famous in the first place. Xzibit made his name on the West Coast rap scene, appearing as a guest on several popular tracks headed by established artists like Snoop Dogg and Dr. Dre. He released his first album, At the Speed...
Loitering—October 20, 2006
By Echo Gonzalez / October 20, 2006
In the midst of the vibrant, predominantly Mexican-American neighborhood of Pilsen sits a little shrine of creature comforts and diversions known as Café Mestizo. One block from the 18th Street stop on the Blue Line (which, as the site of several exquisite murals, is a destination in itself), this “Cultural, Urban Coffee Shop” provides a homey oasis for Pilsen’s college students, families, and musicians. Warm lighting and comfy armchairs make the café undeniably cozy, but it’s the friendly air between regular customers, employees, and newcomers that makes it feel like home. I walked in starving and headed straight for the...
Raisin sags like a heavy load at Court Theatre
By Daniel Sefik / October 17, 2006
Coco. The Rothschilds. Sugar. Purlie. Shenandoah. If you recognize more than three of these names as Tony award–nominated musicals, you’re almost guaranteed to be a musical theater scholar. Broadway in the 1970s was undergoing a metamorphosis, because it wasn’t certain what it was supposed to be anymore. This was the atmosphere in which Raisin was first released. Is it any surprise that hardly anyone remembers this show won Best Musical in 1974? Court Theatre’s decision to revive the show is certainly well founded, since it was right here in Chicago’s South Side that Lorraine Hansberry’s father tried to move into...
Beck plays puppeteer in concert of old favorites
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / October 17, 2006
It would be a safe bet to assume that the crowd who waited in the cold to see Beck last Saturday night didn’t think they would also be watching intricate puppets perform. Yes, the world can be full of beautiful surprises—like seeing Beck and his backup band turned into a grown-up version of Sesame Street. Beck played the UIC Pavilion, an unpleasant and austere arena blocks away from the UIC campus and miles away from anything else of interest. He is touring to support his newest album, The Information, which came out at the beginning of this month. Despite Beck’s...
Evens stay on the level despite indifferent crowd
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 17, 2006
As soon as I got to the Evens concert last Friday night, I recalled the stories of the earliest Fugazi concerts. Instead of caring about Fugazi, a band that would go on to be one of the purest voices of alternative rock in the 1990s, the fans attended because “that dude from Minor Threat” was playing in the band. Since the formation of Fugazi, alternative rock has come and gone as the most popular form of pop music in America, and independent rock has changed from a small network of friends to an industry dominated by collectives, twee pop, and...
In case you missed it—October 17, 2006
By Brian White / October 17, 2006
One of the biggest problems I have with mainstream music, movies, and T.V. is that they are so dominated by overly commercialized pulp that marginal works see little light. Legitimately good works often go unnoticed, but it also produces an irritating phenomenon I like to call the “Donnie Darko Dilemma” (alternately the “The David Lynch Conundrum”). This is a movie that, if it had been exposed to mass audiences and extensive reviews, would have instantly perished into obscurity and ridicule, but instead became a “cult” hit with tons of fanboys and -girls who proclaim its unequivocal genius. The average moviegoer—somehow...
Out to lunch—October 17, 2006
By Joann Chen / October 17, 2006
As students at the notoriously quirky University of Chicago, we all understand the culture of abnormality. We relish the awkwardness of our student body at least a little, and we get an odd sense of pleasure out of the fact that the rigor of the school could make a graduate return to set our science buildings on fire. However much we may ridicule the “state school” image, there are a few things that we undeniably share with our counterparts in other institutions. The most prominent of these similarities is our abandonment of healthy eating upon our arrival. In the span...
Califone’s Roots and Crowns—mixed styles, mixed results
By Oliver Mosier / October 17, 2006
Popularity and talent are often completely unrelated. In the world of music, talent can only get one so far. Luck and timing are two variables out of the artist’s control. Perhaps Roots and Crowns, the eighth and arguably finest effort from indie-collective Califone, will catapult the band into a new stratosphere. Led by primary guitarist and multi-instrumentalist, Tim Rustili, Califone combines the intricate patterns of alternative music with blues, jazz, funk, folk, and shades of classical. The variety of instruments employed by the band members underscores their willingness to ignore the limits of any single genre in search of truly...
Lively Vic set showcase Ladytron’s best material
By Matt Zakosek / October 13, 2006
According to my friend Jules, a longtime Ladytron listener, the band’s latest effort, Witching Hour, is its best to date. The album puts the group in an enviable position: On their current tour, they can spotlight not only their most recent material but also their strongest. Their set at the Vic last Friday began (appropriately enough) with “High Rise,” the haunting opening track on Witching Hour. “We are on the same high/ You and I,” Ladytron vocalist Helena Marnie crooned confidently to a crowd full of college students and young professionals. For the most part, they seemed to agree with...
Foreign films pass muster at Chicago film fest
By Emerald Gao / October 13, 2006
A quick primer: The Chicago International Film Festival (CIFF) is organized into competitive and showcase categories. Foreign films can be entered into the main competition, the first and second feature competition, or slotted in the non-competitive world cinema category. Whatever their status is, imports usually garner some of the most buzz at the CIFF, since oftentimes the festival circuit is the only time American audiences will be able to see these films on the big screen. Two foreign features this year are The King and the Clown, a controversial Korean smash hit, and Darkbluealmostblack, a less well known film from...
Joffrey Ballet trades glass slippers for pointe shoes
By Kate Fratar / October 13, 2006
Last year the Joffrey captured the tragedy and romance of two famous star-crossed lovers when it staged Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet. Chicago’s premiere ballet company continues the two-year celebration of its 50-year anniversary with a much happier love story—the full-length premiere of Cinderella. With a story as old as this classic rags-to-riches fairytale, it’s difficult to make each new version unique. The Joffrey, with the help of Sir Frederick Ashton’s choreography and Sergei Prokofiev’s musical score, creates a Cinderella all its own. It took the company many years to bring this ballet to the stage, but it appears to have...
STD (Stuff to Do)—October 13, 2006
By Eric Benson / October 13, 2006
Friday, October 13 COUP is holding Blues and Ribs, its annual festival of tunes and chow, featuring Charlie Love, The Nightburners, and Nellie “Tiger” Travis and her Men in Black. The evening will be headlined, as always, by charcoal-grilled St. Louis Ribs and finger-lickin’ sides. (Ida Noyes Hall, 9 p.m., free) For all you fashionistas out there, MODA is putting on its first presentation of the year, the MODA Trunk Show. Fashion designers from Chicago will be auctioning off their products. Raffles, food, and style will be had by all. (Hutch Commons, 7 p.m., Free) For those of you who...
CSO loud, good
By Alexander Coppock / October 13, 2006
Last Saturday night, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra was both loud enough and good, according to sources who heard the concert. The sound produced by the 104-member orchestra was at a high enough volume that it could be heard by the people sitting in the audience. That sound, which made it all the way from the instruments to the ears of the concert-goers, was also good. “Wow,” said Penelope Derrida, a fourth-year Visual Arts major attending the CSO for the tenth or eleventh time. “I can finally hear them!” When asked if she enjoyed the concert, she replied, “Hell yeah! That...
Get a Life—October 13, 2006
By Echo Gonzalez / October 13, 2006
Where in this vast city can one find Public Enemy action figures, the latest issue of Martian Manhunter, and a comprehensive volume of Bettie Page prints? At Chicago Comics on Clark Street, angsty zinesters, the chillest of chill manga perverts, and any variety of eccentrics can always find rapture. Only a few blocks from the Red Line Belmont stop, this comic book store carries an admirable assortment of all that is noteworthy in today’s small press. While the store somewhat lacks that makeshift-cozy atmosphere that makes other comic book stores so appealing, it is compensated for with its bare brick,...
Too much Information in new Beck release
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 13, 2006
One of the hardest things to do in contemporary pop music is to create a unique sound while maintaining a respect for the past. Over the past 10 years, no one has done that better than Beck. In his mid-’90s heyday with albums like Mellow Gold and Odelay, Beck breezed through genres with a swagger while maintaining his slacker hipster attitude. Yet one of the problems Beck has run into recently is that his unpredictability has paradoxically become predictable. Perhaps in response to that problem, Beck’s 2005 Guero was more of a collection of past themes with a slightly more...
Scorsese embraces genre conventions in The Departed
By Matt Johnston / October 10, 2006
Awards for directing have always puzzled me, because with all the hundreds of people working on a movie, one could hardly tell from the finished product who deserves credit for what. I suppose the same could be said of acting prizes, considering the audience has no way of knowing how many takes and how much coaching a certain performance consumed. We do know, though, that at some point the actor had to do the winning take, even if a thousand losing takes preceded it. The hand of the director, however, is only evident across the span of several projects. In...
Decemberists embark on folk tale adventure in Crane Wife
By Oliver Mosier / October 10, 2006
There’s something about summer camp that makes me tired. As a counselor a few years back, I had to sit through a summer camp production of the Japanese folk tale, The Crane Wife. I envied the lights at the start of the play because they had been killed, whereas I was sadly spared, only to witness a new high point in theatrical butchery. From a counselor’s point of view, this camp lacked both the ’90s appeal of Salute Your Shorts and the hilarity of Wet Hot American Summer. (No, I didn’t kill any campers. That isn’t to say the thought...
In Case You Missed It—October 10, 2006
By Brian White / October 10, 2006
In case you missed my first article, I’m here to expose my lovely and devoted readers to old and obscure classics of cinema, music, literature, and television. In the realm of overlooked gems, one category seems to pop up again and again: cult classics. This isn’t because of the merit of any particular cult favorite; it’s mostly because the fans of these cult favorites never shut the hell up. This week, I plan to tackle the cult-favorite Equilibrium, and then switch gears to cover a personal favorite, Igby Goes Down. Movies: Equilibrium (2002) Equilibrium, for some reason, is always compared...
Pacifica dazzles yet again at Mandel
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / October 10, 2006
The Pacifica Quartet has secured a stellar reputation in the musical community, fed by a constant stream of awards and accolades for both their albums and performances. As audience members entered Mandel Hall on Sunday afternoon, they could be sure to expect an incredible performance. The quartet didn’t disappoint, astonishing yet again with their renditions of lesser known works by Bedrich Smetana and Henri Dutilleux, and the favorite “B minor Clarinet Quintet” by Brahms. The concert started out with the thrilling intensity of the first chord of Smetana’s “String Quartet in E minor.” A contemporary of Brahms, Smetana was a...
Out to Lunch—October 10, 2006
By Joann Chen / October 10, 2006
I, for one, am a huge fan of Hyde Park. I love that our grocery store is a self-proclaimed “love affair with wonderful foods.” I love that there is always an animated and friendly group of men playing chess in that convenience store on 53rd Street. I love that the guy in front of Hyde Park Produce asks for “any kinda change” and goes on to specify that he only accepts quarters, nickels, and dimes. This neighborhood is exploding with character, and I find it a welcome change from my suburban hometown. I do, however, see a few of the...
First CIFF weekend features human pathos and joy
By Emerald Gao / October 6, 2006
Chicago is one of the great cinema cities in the United States, a statement that is very easy to make each autumn when the Chicago International Film Festival rolls around. Despite the much-anticipated special screenings of Babel and The Fountain, it’s the smaller indie flicks, foreign imports, and documentaries that really make the film festival worth its ticket price. I was able to obtain screeners for two such releases, The Bridge and Vitus. The Bridge, a documentary by Eric Steel, is met with controversy everywhere it goes. No doubt its subject matter has something to do with it—Steel and his...
Pink Floyd legend “shines on” with epic performance
By Oliver Mosier / October 6, 2006
I was brought up listening to my parents’ music, so artists like Miles Davis and Paul Simon were part of my early musical education. While those artists are still among my favorites, I’ve never forgotten the first album that was all mine. After years of borrowing albums from my parents, my Dad gave me my first CD. He chose wisely, giving me Pink Floyd’s Dark Side of the Moon, an album that he loved in his youth. Now I was ready to enter a new sonic realm. I ran back to my room with the CD and listened to it...
Gruesome Pillowman shocks Chicago
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 6, 2006
In case you weren’t aware, Martin McDonagh is the best playwright writing in English to have emerged in the past decade. This fact is all the more impressive since all his plays were written in a single creative outburst in 1993 after no formal training. Since The Beauty Queen of Leenane took London by storm in 1996, the theater world on both sides of the pond has slowly begun to unravel the intricate, sick genius of this Irish-descended English playwright. Four Tony nominations, two Olivier awards, and an Oscar later, The Pillowman, arguably McDonagh’s best play, has made its Chicago...
Indie starlets build on reputation with catchy material
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / October 6, 2006
In June 2005, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah was yet another five-piece ensemble working out of Brooklyn. But, following the self-release of their first full-length record, buzz around the band in the indie scene reached an absurd level of hysteria. Within months, Clap Your Hands managed to sell out nearly every stop on their tour—even when they were just the opening band. They were pushed by dozens of reputable MP3 blogs, as well as internet behemoth Pitchfork. The band is purportedly even a new favorite of David Bowie. Lots of hype can truly be a striving musician’s best friend. College...
Angry rock stars stumble through Open Door
By Emale Gray / October 6, 2006
Remember the ’90s? The era when rock showoffs like Metallica and Alice in Chains and similar metalheads were big? I miss it, and I know you do, too. With the arrival of Evanescence, that style of head-banging rock was revisited. Instead of an angry, bass-heavy bottle of testosterone, we received a couple shots of estrogen in the form of Amy Lee and her rotating cast of band mates. Led by the commercial success of their first single “Bring Me To Life,” Evanescence created their own brand of music, combining gothic elements, Christian-themed lyrics, saintly vocal arrangements, and a dark, gloomy...
Venice spotlights Aronofsky, Estevez
By Oliver Mosier / October 3, 2006
The Venetian sun baked the promenade in front of my hotel. Gondoliers waited for tourists anxious to experience the historic canals by boat. I watched all this from the window and prepared for another day of dark theaters and long lines. I saw Ethan Hawke put on his director hat for The Hottest State, a movie version of his novel by the same name. It was a simple coming of age story starring Mark Webber and Catalina Sandino Moreno as two passionate lovers. The audience knows almost immediately that the movie is about heartbreak; it is also 30 minutes too...
Murakami collection makes everyday life fantastic
By Seth Satterlee / October 3, 2006
In 1978, at Tokyo’s Jingu Stadium, Haruki Murakami went to a baseball game as a jazz bar owner and left a novelist. He didn’t have a vision or an apparition or a rebirth, just an abrupt and simple realization: with the crack of a bat, Murakami realized he could write a novel. Sometimes, strange and unusual things happen that can’t be explained. Nobody could say exactly why, at that moment, he decided to pursue writing after seven years of owning a jazz club, but it happened. Murakami’s life is a strange tale. “…Everything I write, more or less, is a...
Out to Lunch—October 3, 2006
By Joann Chen / October 3, 2006
One rather embarrassing thing about me is that I cannot, for the life of me, manage my finances. The proof of this flaw rests in my many, many shocking credit card statements and in being told by my mother on more than one occasion that I had spent more in one month than my family pays on the monthly mortgage. So recently, when I was put to the task of baking for a dozen of my co-workers, all I could imagine was that due to months of extravagant summer spending, my October rent check might actually be spent on the...
In Case You Missed It—October 3, 2006
By Brian White / October 3, 2006
Do you know what the top-grossing movie of 2005 was? Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. The most popular TV show in U.S. history? Baywatch or Friends, depending on whom you ask. The most popular album of 2005? Mariah Carey’s Emancipation of Mimi, followed closely by releases by 50 Cent and Kelly Clarkson. I’ve never been a super-critical art snob; I didn’t even particularly mind Harry Potter or its runner-up, Revenge of the Sith. I do, however, feel that anyone who considers any of the above to be legitimate works of art deserves a swift kick to the same...
Gondry weaves substanceless dreams in his Sleep
By Matt Johnston / October 3, 2006
Given that Michel Gondry’s new movie, The Science of Sleep, centers around a man who has trouble distinguishing reality from his dreams, it is forgivable that the final product feels a bit disjointed. It is supposed to. But unlike Gondry’s better known Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, this latest effort feels muddled, and that is less acceptable. I am reminded of a line from Tobias Wolff’s novel Old School about a short story called “Suicide Note” that read “as if it’d been written after the narrator blew his brains out.” The Science of Sleep views as if it were...
Sufjan Stevens entreats Chicago crowd to Feel the Illinoise at the Riviera
By Oliver Mosier / October 3, 2006
Sufjan Stevens was the man behind the mask last Tuesday night, his feathers flapping rhythmically with his every movement and his eyes remaining well hidden behind an elaborate, ornithologically-inspired costume. Stevens took the stage at Chicago’s Riviera, playing banjo, guitar, piano, and bass on the first four songs of his set. In doing so, he demonstrated his remarkable musical prowess. The Michigan native was not all that talkative through the first few songs. The verbal drought ended when Stevens told the audience the amazing backstory to “The Predatory Wasp of the Palisades is Out to Get Us.” The childhood anecdote...
Fall season dishes up full servings of Bach, Brahms
By Alexander Coppock / October 1, 2006
Kudos to all those who noticed the three glaring errors in last week’s coverage of classical music goings-on about town. First, the Maroon printed the 2005-2006 season of Chicago Presents instead of this year’s. Second, the picture of the Pacifica Quartet was seriously outdated, featuring only two out four current members of the quartet. Lastly, the “feed your oh-so bourgeois ears” article focused on highlights from the last year’s Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s season. But for those of you still committed to living in the past, those errors may have been welcome comfort. It’s a harsh reality, I know: The year...
This “Fergalicious” treat is worthy of a Dutchess
By Emale Gray / October 1, 2006
What could the Duchess of York and the leading lady of the Black Eyed Peas possibly have in common? Though they may not share a vaginal sweat disorder, both sport the same name, strive for commercial success, and enjoy newfound independence. Similar to the way the Duchess of York left her sheltered life with the royal family, Fergie is declaring her own identity outside of the sanctuary of the Black Eyed Peas as The Dutchess. Stacy “Fergie” Ferguson’s life journey has been nothing less than an episode of Oprah, awash with prepubescent fame, a washed-out girl group, and a ruinous...
Energetic Mars Volta set sends Aragon into orbit
By Matt Zakosek / October 1, 2006
In a perfect confluence of artist and venue, The Mars Volta took the stage at the Aragon last Friday night under a ceiling dappled with planets and constellations. Despite keeping the audience waiting nearly 45 minutes after their 7:30 p.m. start time (with no opening act to fill the gap), they made good on the $35 ticket price by delivering a blistering set of their ambient post-rock psychedelia for nearly two hours. Don’t ask me to attempt a rudimentary set list or cite any lyrics, because I can’t—not that there were many lyrics to be heard in the largely instrumental...
Penn’s charisma reigns, but rest of King’s Men falters
By Matt Johnston / October 1, 2006
“Nail ’em up. Nail ’em up! You give me the hammer and I’ll do it.” So goes the battle cry of one Willie Stark, the self-made man based on Huey Long in Steven Zaillian’s new film, All the King’s Men. As played by Sean Penn, Stark teeters on the edge of insanity, always soused but rarely drunk, concerned for the masses but forgetful of their true needs, angered by the fat cats at the state house but willing to take a piece of the pie for himself. Penn makes the most of the role; with mussed hair and contorted face,...
Stars rub shoulders on the waterfront at the Venice International Film Festival
By Oliver Mosier / October 1, 2006
It’s freaking sinking. The whole place. Not a neighborhood or a section—the entire thing is slowly easing its way into the sea. Despite the imminent demise of the Venetian landscape, I had no problem covering the prestigious 63rd Venice Film Festival. To paraphrase George Costanza’s boss, Mr. Kruger, I wasn’t too worried about it. Each day I had to take a water taxi from my hotel to the festival venues. And, unlike our beloved #173 bus on the South Side, the water taxi was always on time. The main building—or Sala Grande—was flanked by hundreds of golden winged lions and...
Controversy, innovation take center stage in Toronto
By Bourree Lam / October 1, 2006
There are three things that I love about the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF): a) it’s public, b) rush tickets are almost always available if you show up an hour early, and c) meeting and talking to perfect strangers in line. This year I attended screenings of Guy Maddin’s Brand Upon the Brain! and Korean horror hit The Host, among other titles, but first, let’s catch up on this year’s festival buzz. Death of the President was by far the most controversial and talked-about film at the festival. The U.K. film uses a retrospective documentary style to tell the story...
Fueled by Food & Liquor, Fiasco skates to success
By Greg Brown / October 1, 2006
Let’s just get this out of the way first: Lupe Fiasco is a non-drinking, non-swearing Muslim, a skateboarding, glasses-wearing, self-proclaimed nerd rapper. Whew. Glad that’s over, because a quick look and listen beyond the obvious potential for pigeon-holing him or reducing him to a mere niche artist (imagine the white-haired A&R guy as one of the characters in a Guinness TV commercial: “a clean, black, skateboarding rapper? Brilliant!”) reveals a truly superb album that extends beyond any standard hip-hop niche. Food & Liquor can be absorbed on many different levels, all of which are correct, none of which can begin...
Videogames Extra: Nintendo Wii
By Sean Ahmed / September 27, 2006
The system’s minimalist white angles, the controller’s remote-like appearance, and the social name (pronounced “we”) may not seem like much, but come November 18, the Wii is going to drop a bomb on what we used to know as the videogame industry. That prediction may sound far-fetched for an entertainment genre that has consistently followed up each innovative game with 20 me-toos and Xboxes and Playstations that increase in number and strength but not in fun. With their new motion-sensing system, Nintendo’s going to rock this growing but unmoving boat. First of all, to bring you up to speed if...
Lolla’s big acts lack bang, but festival lives up to hype
By Kara Boulahanis / September 14, 2006
This year’s Lollapalooza festival certainly lived up to its name, proving that the big bang theory of celebration is alive and kicking in Chicago. Grant Park detonated with an explosion of music that shook the city skyline from August 4 through 6. Fireworks? Who needs them? This full-service music buffet proved that there are a lot of people who love to rock to awesome music while dancing semi-naked in the blistering sun. The kaleidoscopic impact of this multi-band musical bash was enhanced for many festival goers with intoxicants that ranged from the mild to the mindless. This wild celebration held...
Lolla’s big acts lack bang, but festival lives up to hype
By Kara Boulahanis / September 14, 2006
This year’s Lollapalooza festival certainly lived up to its name, proving that the big bang theory of celebration is alive and kicking in Chicago. Grant Park detonated with an explosion of music that shook the city skyline from August 4 through 6. Fireworks? Who needs them? This full-service music buffet proved that there are a lot of people who love to rock to awesome music while dancing semi-naked in the blistering sun. The kaleidoscopic impact of this multi-band musical bash was enhanced for many festival goers with intoxicants that ranged from the mild to the mindless. This wild celebration held...
Bonnaroo lights up Tennessee for aging hippies and young ‘uns alike
By Seth Maxon / September 14, 2006
Bonnaroo, the annual music festival held in Manchester, a.k.a. Bumblefuck, Tennessee, gets a bad rap. Many people have never heard of it, and those who have seem to imagine it as some sort of boiling, drug-infested bacchanalia; an annual congregation of young and aging hippies, equally pathetic in their attempts to replicate the long-dead, uninhibited ethos of Woodstock and the ’60s. Like many stereotypes, though, this one proves both fact-based and grossly misunderstood. Indeed, annual performers and headliners have included assorted members of the Grateful Dead, Phish, the Allman Brothers, Bob Dylan, and jam bands like moe. and Widespread Panic....
Fall movie preview: Sorcery, sci-fi, and Spaniards
By Emerald Gao / September 14, 2006
Although Scorsese’s The Departed—a remake of the Hong Kong cult classic Infernal Affairs—has received less-than-sparkling reviews from advance screenings, and Sofia Coppola’s badly mangled Marie Antoinette (surely it is this year’s Memoirs of a Geisha) might well turn out duds, this season will still be a great one for film. Here are the top five reasons why. Michel Gondry’s new film, The Science of Sleep (September 22), co-starring Gael García Bernal and Charlotte Gainsbourg, looks visually stunning, to say the least. Gondry’s vivid artistry should make this romantic comitragedy an appealing feature for fans of his last film, Eternal Sunshine...
Cash, Petty’s new releases serve up rustic Americana
By Oliver Mosier / September 14, 2006
Tom Petty’s latest solo release, Highway Companion, attempts to firmly place the artist in the sound of Americana. Petty constantly evokes nostalgia, a cornerstone of the American musical experience. Images of Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper out on the open road immediately come to mind. Petty sings one for the road. The tenor of the record increases as the tracks roll on. Highway Companion starts off rather calmly, only to be met with unadulterated rock on songs like “Flirting with Time” and “Big Weekend.” On the record, Petty returns to what he knows—real American rock ’n’ roll. The record is...
Pitchfork harvests hipsters’ favorites
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / September 14, 2006
The week before the summer heat wave broke and released Chicago from temperatures above 100 degrees, Pitchfork Media, the definitive news source for all things indie, curated its second annual music festival in Union Park. Hipsters sidled onto the grassy field in inappropriately constrictive jeans and faux-vintage sundresses to hear an array of bands handpicked by—well, the same people who usually determine the music to which many of these fans listen. The Pitchfork Festival was focused on emphatic appreciation for indie culture—mostly the music, but also a variety of semi-ironic sunglasses. The two-day festival was billed as a huge bargain—41...
X-Men shows not all mutants end up at the U of C
By Azure Gilman / June 2, 2006
It was not without some concern that I went to see the latest of the X-Men movies. Despite all their other victories, I wasn’t sure if the X-Men could survive a director like Brett Ratner (infamous for the masterpiece known as Rush Hour 2). If you also had these concerns, fear not—it’s safe to come out, and Jackie Chan is nowhere in sight. X-Men: The Last Stand is amazing! The film surprises you in the best way when it opens with flashbacks to familiar mutants as young teenagers. Young Jean Grey (Haley Ramm) is shown grappling with the extent of...
Pitchfork Music Festival or Lollapalooza? Let your wallet be your guide.
By Oliver Mosier / June 2, 2006
“It’s so damn hot.” Those words have become an annual battle cry for most Midwesterners. Chicago summers contain a brutality and harshness equaled only bywell, Chicago winters. Temperatures are rising furiously off of Lake Michigan and countless Chicagoans are already looking for refuge. There are several things that can define one’s summer. Usually, music is something that rises to the top of that list. If you’re staying in the Chicago area this summer—desperately seeking a break from the oppressive heat—then look no farther than Union Park. On July 29 and 30, Pitchfork Media will be hosting a music festival that...
Pitchfork Music Festival or Lollapalooza? Let your wallet be your guide.
By Oliver Mosier / June 2, 2006
“It’s so damn hot.” Those words have become an annual battle cry for most Midwesterners. Chicago summers contain a brutality and harshness equaled only bywell, Chicago winters. Temperatures are rising furiously off of Lake Michigan and countless Chicagoans are already looking for refuge. There are several things that can define one’s summer. Usually, music is something that rises to the top of that list. If you’re staying in the Chicago area this summer—desperately seeking a break from the oppressive heat—then look no farther than Union Park. On July 29 and 30, Pitchfork Media will be hosting a music festival that...
Guggenheim and Gore’s An Inconvenient Truth: good movie, great message
By Matt Zakosek / June 2, 2006
How does one begin to review An Inconvenient Truth—Davis Guggenheim’s new documentary about the perils of global warming, starring Al Gore—for its cinematic quality? It’s like evaluating Articles of Impeachment Against George W. Bush for its literary merit. That is to say, films that put general artistry before their message are usually the most effective at conveying that message. I can’t think of a stronger argument for gay marriage than the gorgeously made Brokeback Mountain, nor a more incisive indictment of the American family than the poetically shot Junebug. Where, then, does that leave An Inconvenient Truth, which is essentially...
Guggenheim and Gore’s An Inconvenient Truth: good movie, great message
By Matt Zakosek / June 2, 2006
How does one begin to review An Inconvenient Truth—Davis Guggenheim’s new documentary about the perils of global warming, starring Al Gore—for its cinematic quality? It’s like evaluating Articles of Impeachment Against George W. Bush for its literary merit. That is to say, films that put general artistry before their message are usually the most effective at conveying that message. I can’t think of a stronger argument for gay marriage than the gorgeously made Brokeback Mountain, nor a more incisive indictment of the American family than the poetically shot Junebug. Where, then, does that leave An Inconvenient Truth, which is essentially...
Chris Ware’s urban cartoons make a strange but effective art exhibit
By Ethan Stanislawski / June 2, 2006
Cartoon art is in a strange place in the art world at the moment. For decades dismissed as a young male hobby or as a section of a local tabloid that is best-forgotten, comic art, like film and photography before it, is currently changing from a adolescent hobby into a valid artistic medium. This transition can be attributed to a few certain works—Art Spiegelman’s Maus and Michael Chabon’s novel The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay are a couple that have been deemed Pulitzer-worthy—or it can be seen as a larger intellectual progression that has been building up for the...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)June 2, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / June 2, 2006
Welcome to the last “Stuff to Do” for this year. Lots of music and fun for everyone—except for those of us (most of us?) who’ll be stuck in the Reg all weekend. Congratulations to the seniors, and happy vacation! Friday, June 2 There’s a little slice of musical heaven for everyone this Friday. Chicago’s summer of music festivals starts off this afternoon with the Gospel Music Festival in Millennium Park. (Randolph and Michigan Avenues, 6–9:30 p.m. Friday, 12–9:30 p.m. Saturday and Sunday, free) Tonight also marks the last Java Jive of the school year. The Chicago Swing Dance Society presents...
The 1900s mix a bit of Belle with a bit of Sebastian
By Leila Sales / May 26, 2006
When I write music reviews, I try to make my job easier by reading everything that has already been written about a band, in the hopes that some other journalist will tell me what my opinions should be. The first thing I noticed when looking over the Chicago-based 1900s’ press was the frequent comparison between them and Scottish indie legends Belle & Sebastian. Now, frankly, you can compare any band to Belle & Sebastian and come away with an infinite number of similarities. (Guns N’ Roses is like Belle & Sebastian because they both have two words in their names,...
Sarah Waters needs to Watch out for new time periods, too many characters
By Matt Zakosek / May 26, 2006
Sarah Waters is one of our best contemporary novelists. From the eerie Affinity to the rollicking Tipping the Velvet to the superlative Fingersmith, not one of her books has disappointeduntil now. The Night Watch is slow, ponderous, and unoriginal; the plot not nearly involving enough to merit the 446 pages Waters allots it. This just may be the worst literary setback since Donna Tartt followed The Secret History with The Little Friend, or at least since Maile Meloy followed Liars and Saints with A Family Daughter. The story, set in WWII–era London, focuses primarily on Helen and Julia, a lesbian...
Sarah Waters needs to Watch out for new time periods, too many characters
By Matt Zakosek / May 26, 2006
Sarah Waters is one of our best contemporary novelists. From the eerie Affinity to the rollicking Tipping the Velvet to the superlative Fingersmith, not one of her books has disappointeduntil now. The Night Watch is slow, ponderous, and unoriginal; the plot not nearly involving enough to merit the 446 pages Waters allots it. This just may be the worst literary setback since Donna Tartt followed The Secret History with The Little Friend, or at least since Maile Meloy followed Liars and Saints with A Family Daughter. The story, set in WWII–era London, focuses primarily on Helen and Julia, a lesbian...
Upcoming Surfjan album: an Avalanche of Illinois outtakes, more “Chicago”
By Oliver Mosier / May 26, 2006
Sufjan Stevens’s newest album will hit storesThe new album from Sufjan StevensThe Avalanche is Sufjan Stevens’s newest album So there you have it, the outtakes of this article, something very rare in journalism. Apparently, this nuance was lost on Sufjan Stevens when he was compiling the material for his newest album. Because—unlike the beginning of my article—his album bears no resemblance to something dominated by outtakes. Three versions of the beautiful “Chicago” notwithstanding, The Avalanche is an album of essentially new material. It is a beautiful counterpoint to Illinois, the album from which it originated. Despite coming from Illinois, the...
Upcoming Sufjan album: an Avalanche of Illinois outtakes, more “Chicago”
By Oliver Mosier / May 26, 2006
Sufjan Stevens’s newest album will hit storesThe new album from Sufjan StevensThe Avalanche is Sufjan Stevens’s newest album So there you have it, the outtakes of this article, something very rare in journalism. Apparently, this nuance was lost on Sufjan Stevens when he was compiling the material for his newest album. Because—unlike the beginning of my article—his album bears no resemblance to something dominated by outtakes. Three versions of the beautiful “Chicago” notwithstanding, The Avalanche is an album of essentially new material. It is a beautiful counterpoint to Illinois, the album from which it originated. Despite coming from Illinois, the...
Upcoming Surfjan album: an Avalanche of Illinois outtakes, more “Chicago”
By Oliver Mosier / May 26, 2006
Sufjan Stevens’s newest album will hit storesThe new album from Sufjan StevensThe Avalanche is Sufjan Stevens’s newest album So there you have it, the outtakes of this article, something very rare in journalism. Apparently, this nuance was lost on Sufjan Stevens when he was compiling the material for his newest album. Because—unlike the beginning of my article—his album bears no resemblance to something dominated by outtakes. Three versions of the beautiful “Chicago” notwithstanding, The Avalanche is an album of essentially new material. It is a beautiful counterpoint to Illinois, the album from which it originated. Despite coming from Illinois, the...
Mission of Burma turns to heavier grunge sound with their daring Obliterati
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 26, 2006
Despite its grossly inaccurate current reputation, early ’80s hardcore punk had an incalculable influence on practically every hard rock movement of the past 20 years. Hardcore maintained the raw sound and D.I.Y. aesthetics of the first wave of punk and took it one step further as the anything-goes nature of the movement made the American underground of the ’80s one of the most eclectic and daring movements in the history of contemporary music. Perhaps no band did as much to advance the ethos of the underground as Mission of Burma, one of the first freethinking bands out of the many...
Get a LifeMay 26, 2006
By Jane Lopes / May 26, 2006
I love food in all its infinite forms. But even more than food, I love restaurants. Good restaurants have to have good food. No way around that. But really good restaurants also have all the other things that make eating out an experience rather than just a vehicle for receiving good food. HB, a restaurant and catering company located in Belmont, is a really good restaurant. I knew that I liked HB even before I stepped foot in the restaurant. First, the full name of the restaurant is HB, A Hearty Boys Spot. Yes, a pun! I love wordplay almost...
Wolfgang Tillmans documents friends, loves in an eye-opening exhibit
By Zoe Stillpass / May 26, 2006
The Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA) is now showing the first U.S. retrospective of the work of photographer Wolfgang Tillmans. The German-born, London-based photographer first became known in the early ’90s for documenting the nascent acid-house club scene with which he was involved. His photographs can be seen in commercial art galleries as well as fashion and culture magazines. For Tillmans, the installation of his work is just as important as the work itself. The MCA allowed Tillmans to design the architecture of two main first-floor galleries, and he kept a foam model of these galleries in his studio to...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)May 26, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / May 26, 2006
We’re nearing the home stretch to summer now. It’s almost time to buckle down and finally get to work, but in the meantime, there are lots of things to ward off impending finals—at least for a little while. Friday, May 26 Say goodbye to the end of the quarter with one last a cappella concert with Ransom Notes and Yale’s Duke’s Men. Ransom Notes will premiere new pieces as well as perform some of the graduating seniors’ favorites. (BSLC 115, 8 p.m, $2 in advance, $3 at the door) If you haven’t already, go see one of the last two...
The Da Vinci Code’s sin: killing the novel’s suspense
By John Frame / May 23, 2006
Mary Magdalene gave birth to a baby girl shortly after the crucifixion of Christ. Her name was Sarah. Her father was Jesus Christ. The Holy Grail, thought to be the chalice from which the 12 disciples drank during the Last Supper, is really Mary Magdalene, who also appears as the figure to the left of Jesus in Leonardo Da Vinci’s The Last Supper. The chalice does not appear in the painting, but the “V” shape (the symbol for woman) appears between Jesus and Magdalene. “Imagine that Christ’s throne might be continued by a female,” says Sir Leigh Teabing (Ian McKellan)....
Smart’s small-scale Revisions challenges our beliefs about modern art
By Emily Warner / May 23, 2006
It is convenient to view modern art as an attempt to make a clean break from art’s realist past. Sometime around the turn of the last century, artists rebelled and turned their back on the weighty traditions of the past. Figures gave way to forms, smoothness to texture, logical space to illegible flatness, narrative and allegory to media and materiality. There are obviously some flaws in such a view, but it remains a tempting and tenacious one. The Smart Museum’s Revisions: Modernist Sculpture by Rodin, Lipchitz, and Moore offers its own modest correction to the picture. Though small in scale,...
Smart’s small-scale Revisions challenges our beliefs about modern art
By Emily Warner / May 23, 2006
It is convenient to view modern art as an attempt to make a clean break from art’s realist past. Sometime around the turn of the last century, artists rebelled and turned their back on the weighty traditions of the past. Figures gave way to forms, smoothness to texture, logical space to illegible flatness, narrative and allegory to media and materiality. There are obviously some flaws in such a view, but it remains a tempting and tenacious one. The Smart Museum’s Revisions: Modernist Sculpture by Rodin, Lipchitz, and Moore offers its own modest correction to the picture. Though small in scale,...
Larson’s tick, tick…BOOM! explodes with a young playwright’s promise
By Matt Zakosek / May 23, 2006
Jon is a man with a dream. He wants to write musical theater. Actually, he does write musical theater; more specifically, he wants to see one of his shows produced. And if things go well with his latest workshop, that dream may become a reality. That ticking he hears is the sound of his youth slipping away—and that ominous boom in the distance is what happens if his dreams are squashed. Sound familiar? Tick, tickBOOM!’s Jon (winningly portrayed by Michael Ingersoll) is a transparent stand-in for the composer, Jonathan Larson. Just like the young Larson, Jon slaves away on a...
Concerned Photographer blurs the line between voyeurism and compassion
By Jenny Fisher / May 23, 2006
Somehow, I expected the photographs to be bigger. I imagined massive images of girls at looms, staring vacantly at the camera, alongside photographs of policemen with dogs straining against their leashes, jaws open. But although the photographs were small, they were just as powerful as I had imagined. The Concerned Photographer, an exhibit of photographs confronting social justice issues, runs until June 11 at the Art Institute. Beginning with Lewis Hines’s images of child labor, the exhibit includes work by such photographers as Margaret Bourke-White, Walker Evans, Gordon Parks, Danny Lyons, Bruce Davidson, and Susan Meiselas. Their photographs have been...
Eat Your Heart OutMay 23, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / May 23, 2006
Norwegian food doesn’t really have a good reputation. Your friends probably don’t gush, “Oh, you must try this amazing Norwegian restaurant downtown,” and it is a rare event to read an article in the newspaper about superb pickled herring. Nevertheless, I ate my fill of Norwegian food this past weekend at the festival of Syttende Mai—or May 17—which commemorates the signing of the Norwegian constitution. The town of Stoughton, Wisconsin was having a Syttende Mai celebration, and my friend Chris and I drove up to celebrate all things Norwegian (food included). In between the Norwegian parade with the famed Norwegian...
Beyond Einstein: Searching for the best bagel bakeries in the Midwest
By Laura Lutz and Zach Schwartz / May 23, 2006
Einstein Brothers serves bad bagels. They’re almost acceptable slathered in cream cheese, and the store surprisingly doesn’t skimp on its mediocre lox, but the fact remains that they simply aren’t good bagels. We eat them because they’re on campus, but each time they spark days-long rants about the merits of boiling. In the hope of sparing our friends and loved ones from more of these tirades, we went on a journey to find better bagels. The first place we stopped was NYC Bagel Deli. This place is extremely proud of its “kettle boiling” of bagels, though it’s unclear how important...
Chili Peppers drop hot Jupiter and even better Mars
By Seth Satterlee / May 19, 2006
Over the last 23 years, the Red Hot Chili Peppers have established themselves as the most innovative band in music—I guess I should say “disputably,” but it really isn’t disputable. They have tried every genre of music that is worth making—which is pretty much everything except country—and have bridged the gap between the rock and rap worlds, bringing together listeners from both genres. Let me name a few examples: soft rock (“Under the Bridge”), pop rock (“By the Way”), hard rock (“Give it Away”), rap (“Around the World”), Latin (“Cabron”), doo-wop (“Someone”), funk (“Hump de Bump”), and ska (“On Mercury”)....
Islands create a delightful mix of onstage antics, jangly pop, and slow dancing
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / May 19, 2006
If, by chance, some awful war happens and is followed by a traumatizing, eternal cold winter, it would be amazing if Islands were still around, simply so that they could play at the post-apocalyptic barbecue. That way, even if humanity has no sunlight, at least we’d all have peppy antics and shimmering guitar hooks. Though these things will probably seem like less of a comfort when the nuclear apocalypse does come, after Islands’ show at the Metro this Wednesday, the possibility of them jamming almost seems good enough. Islands are (yet another) proto-indie-pop-jam band out of Montreal. Unlike many of...
Get a LifeMay 19, 2006
By Jane Lopes / May 19, 2006
I’m always eager to recreate preadolescence. Especially when finals are creeping up and I think back to a time when I didn’t measure my life in terms of what week in the quarter it was. A time before disinterest became cool and before good, clean fun became lame. But as playing with Barbies is no longer an acceptable form of entertainment, I had to settle for the next best thing: bowling. Bowling in my youth consisted of renting oversized shoes, scouring the racks for the lightest ball with the most fun color, hurling it down the lane from in between...
Get a LifeMay 19, 2006
By Jane Lopes / May 19, 2006
I’m always eager to recreate preadolescence. Especially when finals are creeping up and I think back to a time when I didn’t measure my life in terms of what week in the quarter it was. A time before disinterest became cool and before good, clean fun became lame. But as playing with Barbies is no longer an acceptable form of entertainment, I had to settle for the next best thing: bowling. Bowling in my youth consisted of renting oversized shoes, scouring the racks for the lightest ball with the most fun color, hurling it down the lane from in between...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)May 19, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / May 19, 2006
Friday, May 19 Rhythmic Bodies in Motion present its spring show “Life is a Stage… Dance!” tonight and Sunday. The performance features a variety of dance, including modern, jazz, belly dancing, African, and ballet. (Mandel Hall, 7:30 p.m., $7) Check out Muslim American hip-hop and Maghribi-Jazz fusion artists— including Tyson and the Mo’Rockin Project—at MESSA Music Festival. (I-House, 6 p.m., free) How can people submit themselves entirely to another’s sexual desires and still be fulfilled human beings? How does one begin to explore bondage? Jack Rinella, author of Becoming a Slave and The Master’s Manual, answers these questions and more...
Jeremy Piven not kosher as family man in Steins
By Azure Gilman / May 16, 2006
It’s hard to describe the bar mitzvah craze that hit my middle school. People who come from towns with only one or two Jewish families aren’t usually shuffled from one ceremony to the next until they can recite a good chunk of Hebrew from memory. And usually, anyone who has been to more than three or four can’t help but notice that it’s not always all about the ceremony—it’s about the party. So when Keeping Up with the Steins promised to explain the phenomenon of half-million dollar parties for 13-year-olds, I was sure someone had hit an untapped gold mine....
King of electronic music turns to Hollywood for Lively sophomore release
By Loretta Nuccio / May 16, 2006
The title of a popular rap album asks, Who Is Mike Jones? No one really knows. But who is Paul Oakenfold? Well, that's a bit easier—he's arguably the most famous and talented man in electronic music.
King of electronic music turns to Hollywood for Lively sophomore release
By Loretta Nuccio / May 16, 2006
The title of a popular rap album asks, Who Is Mike Jones? No one really knows. But who is Paul Oakenfold? Well, that's a bit easier—he's arguably the most famous and talented man in electronic music.
Commercials and bad videos can’t stop the beat of Peas and Pussycat Dolls
By Emale Gray / May 16, 2006
Picture yourself going 80 miles per hour down a highway in a fireball-red sedan with plush leather seats and a $10,000 Alpine stereo system. Now imagine Black Eyed Peas logos adorning the headrests and hood of the car—in addition to gold specs lining the interior and exterior—and you have one of the main promotions of the 2006 Honda Civic Tour. The tour encompasses over 40 U.S. cities, stretching from Sacramento to Denver. With each stop, the Peas have a fresh chance to display the superb quality of Honda’s new baby while showcasing their undeniable talent. The Aragon Ballroom was the...
Zwigoff’s follow-up to Ghost World needs sharper satire of Art School
By Matt Johnston / May 16, 2006
It is now time for you to learn the name of Max Minghella. He’s popped up here and there, as Flora Cross’s brother in Bee Season and as George Clooney’s son in Syriana, but now he takes the lead in Art School Confidential. By the looks of it, he has great potential to become this generation’s most overrated indie actor. There are other paths available to Master Minghella, but things are not looking good. Here he plays Jerome, the type of bland protagonist who has no place in offbeat filmmaking. We want people—both characters and actors—who are alive and memorable....
Eat Your Heart OutMay 16, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / May 16, 2006
In Book III of Wilhelm Meister, Goethe writes, “Know’st thou the land where the lemon-trees bloom,/ Where the gold orange glows in the deep thicket’s gloom,/ Where a wind ever soft from the blue heaven blows,/ And the groves are of laurel and myrtle and rose?” Although I believe Goethe is referring to Italy in this poem, when I hear the stanzas and imagine the citrus trees in full bloom I like to envision Goethe writing of the Greek isles, of idyllic hideaways where little children eat Avgolemono soup made with fresh ripe lemons and frolic through the sun-drenched countryside....
Eat Your Heart OutMay 16, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / May 16, 2006
In Book III of Wilhelm Meister, Goethe writes, “Know’st thou the land where the lemon-trees bloom,/ Where the gold orange glows in the deep thicket’s gloom,/ Where a wind ever soft from the blue heaven blows,/ And the groves are of laurel and myrtle and rose?” Although I believe Goethe is referring to Italy in this poem, when I hear the stanzas and imagine the citrus trees in full bloom I like to envision Goethe writing of the Greek isles, of idyllic hideaways where little children eat Avgolemono soup made with fresh ripe lemons and frolic through the sun-drenched countryside....
Thousands make it a Late Night with popular host
By Jason Thurlkill / May 12, 2006
In a town where the biggest celebrities are sports heroes, news anchors, and talk show hosts, thousands of Chicago residents played hooky or called in sick Tuesday to see a taping of Late Night with Conan O’Brien—and some genuine stars, too. A mostly 20-something crowd started showing up at the corner of State Street and Lake Street near the Chicago Theater as early as 9:30 a.m. Fans holding the “Golden Ticket,” an e-mail reservation from NBC, traded e-mails for tickets to see the offbeat, popular late night comedian. The network, which received over 75,000 ticket requests, over-booked the taping, so...
The Dream Begins for America’s soccer hopefuls just in time for the World Cup
By Emerald Gao / May 12, 2006
I’’ve seen Goal! The Dream Begins twice now, and I’’m still hesitant in my approach to this review. I’’ll admit, during my first viewing, my initial instinct as a hardcore soccer fan was to brush the movie off as a gratuitous (not to mention formulaic) sports drama— — and with that title, who could blame me? The fact that Goal! is actually the first part in a trilogy didn’’t help — —“marketing ploy,” I thought darkly. The second time around, I was determined to cast a more impartial eye on the film, and the effort earned me a pleasant surprise....
Sigur Rós brings unique mix of Icelandic and gibberish to Civic Opera House
By Oliver Mosier / May 12, 2006
Yuuuuuuuu eeeeaaaaaayuuuuoooooo aaaaasassssssuuuuuuuuu On second thought, writing this article in “Hopelandic” may prove more difficult than I first thought. If I want to give a favorable review to Sigur Rós’s concert Tuesday night, then using a nonsensical language vaguely resembling both Icelandic and gibberish may not be the best point of departure. (Hopelandic is the brainchild of Jónsi Birgisson, lead singer and guitarist of Icelandic quartet Sigur Rós.) Sigur Rós blends unquestioned brilliance with unapologetic self-indulgence. On May 9, the band performed at Chicago’s lavish Civic Opera House. An opera house perfectly fits the music of this group from the...
Elefant charms audience in spite ofor because ofeccentric lead singer
By Seth Satterlee / May 12, 2006
I first saw Elefant in New Orleans almost a year ago. At the time they were opening for Jimmy Eat World and playing songs off of their debut album, Sunlight Makes Me Paranoid. Having never heard of them, I was immediately surprised at the quality of some of their songs and equally surprised at how bad others were in comparison. Elefant is a feast-or-famine type of band. As the opening act, they played only five songs. In that time, lead singer Diego Garcia slowly took off his jacket and threw it into the audience, in an absolutely hilarious attempt at...
Get a LifeMay 12, 2006
By Jane Lopes / May 12, 2006
This week’s column offers absolutely no practical advice. Because last week, instead of exploring the blossoming wilds of Chicago, I took advantage of a few cancelled classes and a little extra money in my bank account and went to Paris (!!!). Crazy? Yes. I still can’t quite believe I went. There was no rationale compelling me to miss a whole week of the quarter, no logical reason for me to plunge myself into the threat of monetary and scholarly debt. In fact, there was only one force strong enough to draw me to Paris, and it is the strongest magnet...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)May 12, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / May 12, 2006
This week in STD, we embark on a trip back to our youth with stops for prom and lots of story time. Your comfy Dodge Caravan features a soundtrack of the very best of the ’80s and ’90s… sorry. Friday, May 12 Some of us only know GSB students as those professional-looking people you see riding the #172. Others only know the GSB because of the luscious free fruit that used to be in its lobby. (By the way, does anyone know what happened to that?) Anyway, check out the annual GSB Follies tonight—a totally student-created and -produced extravaganza. (Mandel...
Gore urges us to accept An Inconvenient Truth
By Matt Zakosek / May 9, 2006
Al Gore is a Diet Coke drinker. He was also running late, and as I waited in his suite at the Four Seasons to interview him last Thursday morning, his assistant had thoughtfully provided him with a bottle of Diet Coke and a glass of ice. But by the time he arrived—just 15 minutes after the start time, mind you—the ice had mostly melted, so she dumped out the contents of the glass and replaced them with fresh ice. Ahh, the privileges of power. Incredibly, that’s where Gore’s amenities began and ended. I found Gore to be very open and...
Gore urges us to accept An Inconvenient Truth
By Matt Zakosek / May 9, 2006
Al Gore is a Diet Coke drinker. He was also running late, and as I waited in his suite at the Four Seasons to interview him last Thursday morning, his assistant had thoughtfully provided him with a bottle of Diet Coke and a glass of ice. But by the time he arrived—just 15 minutes after the start time, mind you—the ice had mostly melted, so she dumped out the contents of the glass and replaced them with fresh ice. Ahh, the privileges of power. Incredibly, that’s where Gore’s amenities began and ended. I found Gore to be very open and...
Epic film delivers on The Promise of stunning visuals, despite shaky CGI start
By Brian White / May 9, 2006
I’m just going to start out by saying this: The beginning of The Promise is painful to watch. The Promise is a gorgeous movie, with some of the most impressive visuals I have seen since Hero. Young Qingcheng’s (Cecilia Cheung) meeting with the goddess Manshen (Hong Chen) at the very beginning of the movie flows beautifully. The scene sets a tone of fluid grace, mixed with exciting promises of future adventure. Or so I had hoped. Instead, the audience is treated to a battle scene rife with misplaced, sub-par CGI effects, intermingled with warriors wielding comically oversized weapons that are...
Simon, Eno join for sonic Surprise
By Oliver Mosier / May 9, 2006
As long as I can remember, music has been a part of my life. Paul Simon was the first musician that I was exposed to as a small child. I can still recall sitting on the Oriental rug in my parents’ apartment listening to Still Crazy After All These Years. So, as you can imagine, news of the first Paul Simon album in six years gave me something to anticipate. To denote the passage of time, my Dad always says, “Every time you turn around, you’re carvin’ pumpkins.” As we grow a year older, a jack-o’-lantern rots away, another kid...
Simon, Eno join for sonic Surprise
By Oliver Mosier / May 9, 2006
As long as I can remember, music has been a part of my life. Paul Simon was the first musician that I was exposed to as a small child. I can still recall sitting on the Oriental rug in my parents’ apartment listening to Still Crazy After All These Years. So, as you can imagine, news of the first Paul Simon album in six years gave me something to anticipate. To denote the passage of time, my Dad always says, “Every time you turn around, you’re carvin’ pumpkins.” As we grow a year older, a jack-o’-lantern rots away, another kid...
Water flavored by controversy, Bollywood aesthetics
By Matt Johnston / May 9, 2006
Deepa Mehta’s Water is controversial only because there are still people in this world who believe that women ought to be treated as property. If anything, the film is too conservative, and yet it required unbelievable audacity to make even this mildly feminist version. Production was delayed several years when Hindu fundamentalists in India burned the main set in February 2000. The practiced inaction of the Indian government on the issue should serve as a special source of ignominy for its citizens and a sign that free speech has perhaps not progressed as far as we might hope. Mehta finished...
HPAC brings changes with neighborhood Takeover
By Jenny Fisher / May 9, 2006
Approximately 50 people were shimmying, arms outstretched, torsos shaking, as an instructor from Blue Lotus Tribe Belly Dancing called “You guys look tired!” I watched little children, young women, older women, and even some men dancing without self-consciousness as the rain poured down outside. From belly dancing to a pancake breakfast, “Creative Move,” the grand opening of the Hyde Park Art Center, was a 36-hour multimedia event which brought together members of the community, college students, and visitors from outside of Hyde Park to see the new building at 5020 South Cornell Avenue. The center offered performances, artist talks, art-making...
Eat Your Heart OutMay 9, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / May 9, 2006
When I tell people that I am a college student, I am often confronted with the reply, “Oh, you must eat a lot of ramen noodles.” Ramen noodles are a type of Japanese noodle made from water, wheat flour, and alkaline salts, and are usually light yellow, wavy, and somewhat stiff. In Japan, they are served in soup, usually with some type of meat topping. However, when Americans think of ramen noodles, the likely image to come to mind is that of instant ramen noodles, which are created by making the noodles, then frying, steaming, and air drying them. This...
Feel-good Akeelah mostly avoids g-e-n-r-e trappings
By Azure Gilman / May 5, 2006
Akeelah and the Bee is the latest story about a new national obsession with spelling bees—you may have heard of the book-turned-movie Bee Season, or, of course, the documentary Spellbound. Meet the new addition to the folio: Akeelah Anderson, an 11-year-old girl living in south Los Angeles. The youngest member of a loving but troubled family, Akeelah (played by Keke Palmer) has a talent for words but lives as a mediocre student at a drastically under-funded middle school. Akeelah’s mother, played by Angela Basset, is widowed, overworked, and constantly worried that her son is falling in with a bad crowd....
Nik Bärtschs Ronin drones on as Ralph Towner finds spiritual inspiration
By Eric Benson / May 5, 2006
Nik Bärtsch’s Ronin, Stoa, ECM Stoa, the major label debut album of Nik Bärtsch’s Ronin, is a precise and pretentious attempt to unify minimalism, funk, jazz, and world music with a Zen aesthetic. Bärtsch, a Swiss pianist and composer, is a swirl of carefully studied influences, and his erudition is initially quite compelling. What would the musical offspring of minimalist innovator Steve Reich and soul godfather James Brown sound like? Bärtsch is willing to weigh in and remain true to both masters. Yet the novelty of Bärtsch’s scholarly acrobatics quickly wears thin. High-minded concepts are all well and good if...
Sopranos stays fresh in sixth season with gay Mobster, brushes with death
By Oliver Mosier / May 5, 2006
New Jersey is a state that takes pride in the musical landscapes of Bruce Springsteen and the literary pastiche of Newark native Philip Roth. The Garden State has evolved over the years, distancing itself from its revolutionary past. Its favorite son is not Sinatra, Piscopo, or even Jason Biggs. Today, Jersey has exchanged its real heroes for fictitious characters, and in that group, Tony Soprano rises easily to the top. After an extended but routine hiatus from television, The Sopranos returned in March with unbelievable anticipation and left with expected acclaim following the first episode. This season will be the...
Detailed family drama should keep Pilsen’s EP Theater on Life Support
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / May 5, 2006
On the surface, Life Support seems as though it would only be appealing in one of two ways. The play, which runs through June 2, is about a brother and a sister reunited at the foot of their comatose 22-year-old brother’s hospital bed. This kind of plot usually veers off in one of two directions: the General Hospital–esque revelations of superficial drama and absurd entanglements or the Ingmar Bergman–esque revelations of deep-seated issues that lead the audience to conclude that the world is fundamentally a mess. Though both of these genres attract a faithful audience, it takes a lot of...
Get a LifeMay 5, 2006
By Jane Lopes / May 5, 2006
When people talk about getting off campus, they mean going north. There is an overwhelming perception on campus that the South Side (and we’re talking anywhere below B-J) is rundown, dangerous, and devoid of anything worthwhile. Whenever I go south, my roommate Sara—her maternal instincts crescendoing—makes me call her when I leave Hyde Park, when I get to where I’m going, when I leave where I’m going, and when I get back to Hyde Park. This is sweet but not necessary. Because the South Side really isn’t that bad. I would even go as far as to say it is...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)May 5, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / May 5, 2006
Your forecast for the week ahead brings eco-friendly death, comic books, blood, anarchists, and Scav Hunt. Enjoy! Friday, May 5 Where do hard-core environmentalists go when they die? Apparently, they join the “green death movement.” Personally, I’m really intrigued by the idea of an “eco-pod” casket. Apparently it’s recyclable…though I’m not sure I want to know how one would go about doing so. If your curiosity is piqued, check out “In Search of a Greener Death,” a lecture by Sarah McFarland Taylor on ecologically sound burial choices. (12:30–1:30 p.m., free, Cummings Life Science Center 157B) Visit the Smart Museum of...
Who’s down with OPH? Original Pancake House serves the good stuff.
By Zach Schwartz / May 5, 2006
When I was a first year, some friends and I sat at the Point all night to watch the sunrise. Someone had told us that at the moment the sun rose over the lake, it was very bright green, which turned out to be true—though less than worth staying up all night for. After the anticlimactic sunrise, we realized we were all starving and walked to Original Pancake House (OPH). I’d never heard of it, and I wasn’t even into traditional, greasy, heavy breakfast food, being more a cereal-and-bagel man in high school. That morning, everything changed. This hidden gem...
Social tangles are unraveled at the Latino Film Festival
By Emerald Gao / May 5, 2006
The best part about having a press pass for a film festival is— — well, duh, it’s having all those movies at my disposal, free of charge. The worst part about having a press pass for a film festival is the fact that I don’t have all the time in the world to attend every single screening that I would like to. And unless you research every single film extensively before choosing which ones to see, it’s pretty much a tossup if the ones you do see turn out brilliant or disappointing. This year, I consider myself lucky to have...
Riveting United 93: Too soonor not soon enough?
By Matt Johnston / May 2, 2006
How could art ever come too soon? When former New Jersey poet laureate Amiri Baraka penned “Somebody Blew Up America”—a poem which, among other things, insinuated that Israeli workers were warned to stay away from the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001—did anyone say it was too soon to write a poem about one of the saddest events in recent history? No, of course not. It will never be too soon for poetry itself. The time will never be right for that particular poem. Preemptive arguments against United 93—the first mainstream American movie to portray the September 11 attacks—must...
The Boss becomes just a regular guy with down-to-earth Seeger Sessions
By Andrew Miragliotta / May 2, 2006
Just knowing the concept behind We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions would make it easy to say, “Wellhe’s 56 years old, I guess the Boss is getting a little senile.” Something doesn’t seem quite right about a rock-and-roll icon taking 13 musicians with fiddles, a washboard, some banjos, and an upright bass onto a farm in New Jersey to do live recordings of tavern songs and parlor music. But anyone who says that Springsteen has lost his mind with We Shall Overcome, that he’s just trying to make a quick buck, or that he believes he’s so great that he...
Eat Your Heart OutMay 2, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / May 2, 2006
It is rather ironic that spinach is known as the “prince of vegetables.” As noted by food historian Alan Davidson, in medieval times spinach was used mainly in sweet dishes, combined with egg, honey, almonds, and spices to make tarts or flans. This fell out of style, and spinach is now almost exclusively a savory vegetable. However, spinach as a key ingredient in salads seems to have come of age in the 1970s and 1980s. Spinach is a nice salad green because it has more flavor and higher levels of iron and calcium than most lettuces. Spinach salad is very...
At the peak of his career, Lewis Black takes his comedy one step further
By Ethan Stanislawski / May 2, 2006
Among the plethora ranting stand-up comedians, no one has refined the rant into a unique style quite like Lewis Black. With elastic facial expressions, flailing arms, and a voice that can switch among surprise, rage and matter-of-factness in mid-sentence, Lewis Black could have been a successful standup even without witty political humor. But his rants, as visceral and cantankerous as they are, express a refined frustration with political absurdity that rings true to many Americans young and old. It’s his combination of style and content that has made him one of the most memorable standup comedians of the decade. Lewis...
Once-promising Rihanna makes us stop caring about a Girl Like her
By Emale Gray / May 2, 2006
Before discussing the beastly new album by Rihanna, let’s reflect on her auspicious debut album, Music of the Sun. Though it did have a couple of garish tracks, Rihanna defined the album with reggae-inspired songs full of vim and vigor. This was apparent on radio hits like “Pon de Replay,” “If It’s Lovin’ That You Want,” and “Let Me.” Sadly, Rihanna’s new single, “S.O.S.,” exemplifies the type of under-produced music on Girl Like Me. It was hysterical to read fans’ reviews of this crap-tastic album, as they claimed Rihanna explores more genres on this album than her last, or that...
Neil Young falls short of classic protest rock on Living With War
By Oliver Mosier / May 2, 2006
Neil Young’s “Ohio” (“Tin soldiers and Nixon coming/ We’re finally on our own/ This summer I hear the drumming/ Four dead in Ohio”) was a powerful musical response to the Kent State Shootings on May 4, 1970. Over 35 years have passed since his insight jumped from the pen to the page. In a recent burst of creative vigor spanning two weeks, Neil Young reassured the public that his days of protest are far from over. Scheduled for release on May 8, Young’s latest album, Living With War, is a total indictment of the Bush Administration—and, more precisely, the War...
Chicago Latino Film Festival paints striking portraits of friends and lovers
By Emerald Gao / April 28, 2006
My first experience with Spanish language film was when I was the only non-Latin American person in the audience at a limited showing of El Crimen del Padre Amaro. Since then, I’ve discovered Almodovar and Cuáron and a few others; although my Spanish comprehension hasn’t improved since then, I’d like to think that my appreciation of Spanish language film has, which is why events like the Latino Film Festival are so valuable. Showcasing over 100 films from more than 20 Iberoamerican nations in the space of two weeks, the film festival is a celebration not only of Latino culture as...
Goals and love on display at Latino Film Festival
By Emerald Gao / April 28, 2006
If there’s one thing that’s consistent throughout all Latin and South American countries, it’s their love for fútbol—–soccer, as we ignorant Americans know it. As a fan myself, I was excited to see two soccer-themed films on the Latino Film Festival schedule: El Penalti Más Largo del Mundo and O Casamento de Romeu e Julieta. El Penalti Más Largo, a Spanish film directed by Roberto Santiago, is about Fernando, the reserve goalkeeper of a minor league soccer team who has a week to prepare for the most important penalty kick he’’ll ever have to face. He has spent his entire...
Art Institutes Girodet: Romantic Rebel shows sensual side of European history
By Emily Warner / April 28, 2006
Girodet: Romantic Rebel, at the Art Institute through April 30, is as dramatic and charged as the artistic life it showcases. After a small introductory room, the show opens into a shadowy, blue gallery space with two enormous oil paintings gleaming from the darkness of the walls. The paintings, The Dead Christ Supported by the Virgin (1789) and The Sleep of Endymion (1791), are quite different in subject matter. One depicts the Biblical moment after the crucifixion, the other the classical myth of Diana’s conquest, in the form of a shaft of light on the hunter Endymion. Both, however, draw...
Sweet Dreamz are made of these
By Ilana Emmett / April 28, 2006
At first, it’s hard to know what to do with a movie in which two of the lead characters are despicable, one is a moron, and the fourth is a terrorist. But once you get into American Dreamz, you realize you just have to laugh. And laugh and laugh. Director Paul Weitz’s new comedy, which opened in theaters last Friday, is not as dirty as his 1999 film American Pie or as dark as 2002’s About A Boy, but it draws from the same odd humor and the same casting pool—Jennifer Coolidge from the former and Hugh Grant from the...
UT’s City of Angels takes flight
By Seth Satterlee / April 28, 2006
What do you get when you mix a musical with film noir? City of Angels. This weekend, the Reynolds Club’s first-floor theater hosts fourth-year Reid Aronson’s ambitious direction of this Broadway hit. And just to let you know, the musical has been running since fourth week, so today and Saturday will be your last chance to catch it. The performance is truly well done, especially considering the script. Running close to three hours—two hours and 40 minutes by my watch—City of Angels runs a bit too long, but, then again, so do some music videos. The complicated plot follows Stine...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)April 28, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / April 28, 2006
Oh, the woes of sixth week. The weather is beautiful, the campus and the city are bustling with amazing happenings, and suddenly—midterms. Hopefully you’ll have better luck than I will in getting out to take advantage of a few of these events. Friday, April 28 Chicago Society presents a colloquium today and tomorrow entitled “China and the Future of the World.” It starts tonight at 6 p.m. with a U.S. business and government panel and stretches through tomorrow. Keynote speakers include Wang Guangya, ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to the United Nations; Christopher Hill, U.S. assistant secretary of...
Get a LifeApril 28
By Jane Lopes / April 28, 2006
Growing up in the liberal mecca of Northern California, my high school was too progressive and too egalitarian to offer Home Economics—a euphemistic term that put housewifery in the realm of the serious male world that we women so yearn to be a part of. As a result, I can’t cook, I can’t sew, and I break something every time I try to do the dishes. Instead of taking a cooking or sewing class—or, had they had one, a How to Not Break Things class—I decided to combine my hippie upbringing with my hidden desire to be a home economist...
Despite contrivances, these Boots were made for watching
By Matt Zakosek / April 28, 2006
In the proud tradition of twee British comedies—like January’s Imagine Me and You—comes Kinky Boots, the story of Charlie Price (Joel Edgerton), a reluctant businessman who must save his father’s shoe factory from financial ruin by making specialty heels for drag queens. It sounds like an impossibly cutesy premise for a movie, and it kind of is, but the likable cast and charming script save it (just barely) from TV-movie territory. Charlie is engaged to Nicola (Jemima Rooper), a social climber who wants nothing more than to distance herself from a life of men’s footwear. Charlie wants this, too—or at...
Rhett Miller finds a Believer in the crowd at Park West
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / April 28, 2006
As Rhett Miller finished up his set with a second encore, the enthusiastic crowd downed their final beers and danced (fairly drunkenly). A bouncer from the security staff at Park West stood resolute in front of the stage, looking a little bored by the ass-shaking women in front of him and the sweaty, crooning songwriter at his back. As the beer bottles collected in greater numbers at the feet of the crowd, the dancing got more enthusiastic and much, much worse. Miller didn’t seem to mind, even if security did. Rhett Miller splits his time between fronting the successful alt-country...
Superlative Tooth of Crime pulses with rock energy
By William Chyr / April 25, 2006
Before I begin this review, I just want to say three quick things about this play: it’s awesome, it’s awesome, it’s awesome! OK, now I’ll pull myself together. But still, walking out of the theatre after Strawdog’s production of the Midwest premiere of Sam Shepard’s Tooth of Crime (Second Dance), my mouth hung open, my feet stumbled over each other, and the only thought on my mind was how amazing the production was. An updated version of Shepard’s 1972 play, Tooth of Crime (Second Dance) is set in the future where the world is dominated by, uh, rock ’n’ roll...
The Sounds bring a new kind of “Dancing Queen” to town with their pop-punk
By Marina France / April 25, 2006
Say the word “Sweden” and all sorts of images come to mind: Vikings, Pippi Longstocking, Ingmar Bergman, attractive blonds, an unappealing caviar paste my friend likes to eat from a tube, and, of course, a whole host of pop and rock bands of which ABBA is still the best known. The common presumption that ABBA stands for all Swedish music is an infuriating one, given my distaste for “Dancing Queen” and my love affair with fun, punk-infused pop bands from Sweden. I could cite several examples of such bands, but why bother when the Sounds pretty much sum up everything...
Eat Your Heart OutApril 25, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / April 25, 2006
Despite being an adventurous eater (I still profess a dislike for olives and strong cheeses, but that’s another story in itself), I spent much of my childhood disliking lots of foods. I shunned fish, shrimp, carrots, broccoli, and spinach, among many others, but there was one food that was at the top (bottom?) of the list: Brussels sprouts. Now, some people who dislike Brussels sprouts have probably eaten sprouts that were overcooked. When cooked for too long, the sprouts release sulfur compounds and give off an unpleasant smell. But most people dislike Brussels sprouts because they contain high levels of...
Couture du JourApril 25, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / April 25, 2006
The hardest thing in Chicago is dealing with the manic-depressive weather that surrounds us. In the morning you leave your apartment in a skirt and skimpy tank top, and then the clouds gather, the wind picks up, and you find yourself running home between classes to grab some more layers. But aside from trying to guess the afternoon’s temperature, many readers have asked me how to wear the chunky heel that I idolized last week. Here are a few hints and tips on how, when, and where to wear the chunk. I always find it best to wear a chunky...
Editors earn high marks at the Metro
By Seth Satterlee / April 25, 2006
Indie rock is fun, and on Easter Sunday—yeah, I went to a concert on Easter—Stellastarr* and Editors proved that. To any true indie fan, Stellastarr* is a fairly common name. With tunes like “Jenny,” “Sweet Troubled Soul,” and “My Coco,” my favorite, they have their moments, though by no logical reasoning can they be considered a great band. For the second time in eight months, the Chicago-loving group chose to perform at the Metro’s second-floor concert hall on North Clark Street. Playing from about 9:30–11 p.m., their sequence of around 20 songs was uninspiring at best. The problem rested in...
Fiery Furnaces serve strange Tea
By Zach Schwartz / April 21, 2006
Brother-sister bands tend to be sort of weird. Matthew and Eleanor Friedberger are far from an exception to that rule. In fact, the Fiery Furnaces may be the poster children for it, especially considering the way they’re said to have fought as kids. Their most recent album, Bitter Tea, is exactly as odd and unpredictable as we’ve come to expect from this duo. The album is essentially everything people hate about pretentious indie/experimental music, but, not so coincidentally, it also embodies everything others love about it. In short, if you liked their previous album, Blueberry Boat, you’ll probably like Bitter...
Dardenne Brothers episodic LEnfant too derivative to deserve its acclaim
By Matt Johnston / April 21, 2006
Bruno belongs in the category of despicable lowlife. He’s an able-bodied, shrewd, intelligent man who does nothing but cheat and lie and steal from everyone around him, even (or especially) those who love him. Watching him for an hour and a half is an unpleasant experience. This negativity, however, does not disqualify L’Enfant from the realm of greatness. What does is the film’s stubborn insistence in casting itself in the image of many so-called classic films. The criteria for this particular type of pseudo-greatness include but are not limited to: a near-complete lack of music; painfully conventional camerawork that takes...
Voices STD (Stuff To Do) – April 21, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / April 21, 2006
Friday, April 21 Check out “Operation Sexucation: What They Didn’t Teach Us in High School and What We’re Doing to Change It” in Hutch tonight. Organized by Sex Education Activists, this event will feature free food from the Snail, live music from Ariana Barr, Solecism, the Cathy Santonies and others, a raffle, games, and guest speakers. (6–9 p.m., free, Hutch Commons) Get your groove on at the Grad Council’s Salsa Dance Party. Manos Unidas’s first ever fundraiser—proceeds go to deaf individuals and their families in Nicaragua—should be a blast. Live music from the Chicago Mambo All-Stars plus lessons from professional...
Get A Life – April 21, 2006
By Jane Lopes / April 21, 2006
Avec. French for “with.” I don’t really understand the name. I suppose it’s just one of those one-word restaurant names that’s in a different language because it sounds prettier. I grew up on Avenida Miraflores in the town of Tiburon, California. It’s much better than Avenue of the Watch-Flowers in Shark, California. Agreed? I don’t begrudge them the name because calling the restaurant “With” would have sounded worse. Yet, they would never have named it “With”—they would have just found another equally meaningless but aurally pleasing foreign word. Anyway, the food is good enough at Avec that you won’t care...
Rich Beauty World shines a spotlight on Singapore
By Emale Gray / April 18, 2006
“Beauty World—the ladies! Beauty World—the dancing!” This was the theme song of the show cleverly titled (can you guess?) Beauty World. If you have ever seen any Asian soap operas, you know the deal—a long string of episodes with corny storylines, crazy plot twists, and slapstick comedy. Beauty World takes this already pleasurable genre and compresses it into a two-and-a-half-hour production to familiarize the uninitiated with this sort of dramedy. Twelve songs, three acts, more than 20 cast members, and only one chance to give a performance of a lifetime. Even though the team of Beauty World was faced with...
Lively indie rockers convert mostly adolescent crowd to the Metric system
By Oliver Mosier / April 18, 2006
At each concert I attend, I take note of the particular demographic of the show. Typically, college students dying to attain true indie street cred dominate shows in the indie-rock vein. But during Metric’s performance at the Metro on April 10, I felt like I was back in eighth grade, going to the teen center in my middle school cafeteria, drinking punch and listening to Vitamin C. I’d estimate that 60 percent of the audience was teenage girls. I thought that was an awfully high percentage for a school night. But it is more likely that I no longer have...
Eat Your Heart OutApril 18, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / April 17, 2006
The gastronome Brillat-Savarin is probably best known for his adage, “Tell me what you eat and I will tell you what you are,” which is often referenced today as “You are what you eat.” Indeed, if Brillat-Savarin were still alive and asked his fellow Frenchmen what they eat, certain foodstuffs would help signify their origin. A prime example would be where he gets his fat from, because French food is defined by its fat sources. In the North, the fat is butter; in the Southwest, it is goose or duck fat; in the Southeast, the fat is olive oil. This...
Couture du JourApril 18, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / April 17, 2006
Certain trends bring comfort to our delicate bodies. Last summer, it was the boho trend. Boho fashions are loose, comfortable, and stylish—clearly, the best of all worlds. This season, the good news affects our feet with the reincorporation of the chunky heel on the fashion scene. While the wedge and the espadrille make a comeback every summer, the chunky high heel is even more prevalent this season. While high-fashion houses are leading the way in the chunky heel revolution, their more budget-friendly counterparts are following suit, offering shoes that we women can finally walk in. So this season, hide those...
Puzzling Number Slevin not Lucky for audiences
By Matt Johnston / April 14, 2006
Lucky Nu`mber Slevin is a full-speed collision between a peppy action comedy and a mopey melodrama. The result isn’t pretty, but it isn’t boring either. I can’t for a second recommend it, but I stayed awake without difficulty. Here is a movie with more wit than it knows what to do with, but not enough faith in its concept to stay afloat. Just when we want more unbelievable coincidences, more ridiculous twists, more outrageous characters, and more fast-paced dialogue, we get immersed in a real downer of a revenge tale. The violence becomes disconcerting: I laughed and then I felt...
Bohemian Theatre Ensemble stays true to universal themes of Greek tragedy
By William Chyr / April 14, 2006
Of the seven surviving plays by Sophocles, Electra is notable for its prominent female characters and examinations of justice. It is emotionally charged and universal in its portrayal of human nature. In the latest adaptation by the Bohemian Theatre Ensemble, this classic story of a woman thirsting for revenge against her mother is brought to life in a presentation that is beautiful and honest in its depiction of the characters. Based on a Greek myth, Sophocles’s play begins with the return of Orestes (Eddie Bennett) to Mycenae to avenge the death of his father Agamemnon at the hands of his...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)April 14, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / April 14, 2006
Friday, April 14 There’s no reason to trek out to the overpriced thrift stores on the North Side when you’ve got the chance to buy other U of C students’ unwanted crap right here, at the second quarterly Cobb Coffee Shop Flea Market. (2–4:30 p.m., free plus price of junk, Cobb basement) Go see lots of talented dancers at UC Dancers’ “Leaps and Boundless” performance. (4 p.m. and 8 p.m., $5, $3 with student ID, Ida Noyes Third Floor Theater) Saturday, April 15 Listen up, U of C students—here’s your chance at 15 minutes of fame. The fleeting reality-TV-show kind,...
Get a LifeApril 14, 2006
By Jane Lopes / April 14, 2006
After finishing her massive B.A., my roommate Nora wanted to treat herself to a massage. She asked me to come along because I never say no to things that people want to do—but don’t want to do alone—and also because our last joint massage experience needed to be redeemed. Let me explain: Nora and I traveled around Europe together after our separate study abroad programs in the fall. We ended up in Karlovy Vary, a Czech town built around a natural hot spring, and decided to get a massage at one of the cheap spas that littered the landscape. While...
Brick evokes noir atmosphere but lacks cohesion
By Matt Johnston / April 11, 2006
My new goal in life is to form letters out of smoke, like they are in Brick’s advertising campaign and in the trailer. This replaces my previous life goal of pouring a drink from one cup to another without having any liquid dribble down the sides. After all, life is short (and getting shorter with each smoke-letter attempt), so it’s time to realign my priorities with their requisite coolness. The pouring trick has the advantage of being bar-friendly in this new age of smoking bans, but I doubt it would leave anywhere near as lasting an impression. What any of...
Josh Ritter channels Dylan on the accomplished but accessible Animal Years
By Oliver Mosier / April 11, 2006
Bruce Springsteen’s 1975 release, Born To Run, garnered comparisons to the usually incomparable Bob Dylan. While these apparently premature comparisons proved to be reasonable in the years to follow, such praise is always difficult to take. Now, three decades later, the next branch in this musical bloodline appears to be secured. While Josh Ritter is not Mr. Zimmerman, he may very well be the closest thing the 21st century has to a successor to Springsteen. The Animal Years follows Ritter’s previous three releases, including two independent albums of note (The Golden Age of Radio and Hello Starling). The Animal Years...
Eat Your Heart OutApril 11, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / April 11, 2006
This week I am going to be doing a lot of drinking. However, before you hand me a vodka and tonic, I should warn you that it is not all celebratory drinking. Yes, I did turn in the first draft of my B.A. paper, so that is something to get excited about, but I am also getting all of my wisdom teeth taken out this week, so anything that enters my mouth will undoubtedly come through a straw. This week’s column, therefore, is dedicated to all sorts of libations. Many of the old standards, such as the gimlet or the...
Friends with Money explores the bonds between women and their pocketbooks
By Eric Benson / April 11, 2006
In college, if we’re lucky, many of us will make friends whom we will have for the rest of our lives. Our lives will change, without a doubt, but hopefully some of these treasured bonds will remain. That is not to say, however, that they won’t be tested. Franny (Joan Cusack), one character in Nicole Holofcener’s Friends With Money, wonders whether she would be friends with Olivia (Jennifer Aniston) had they met at a different point in time, before life took them in drastically different directions. However, because of the sisterly bond they’ve formed, these characters—as well as their friends...
Couture du JourApril 11, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / April 11, 2006
Hyde Park is described in our Chicago Life guidebook as “among the most desirable places to live in the city of Chicago. For students, it provides the essentials of life, along with enough diversions to keep boredom at bay when a trip downtown is not practical.” I highly disagree. There is nothing better to do on a weekend than visit other Chicago neighborhoods and drool over their various, often fabulous, offerings. Paying the two dollars to get to Wicker Park is well worth the dough, although in the back of your mind you are still wondering why the University refuses...
Fame and violence collide in MCA’s Warhol exhibit
By Stephanie Mielcarek / April 7, 2006
At first glance, there’s a pretty large difference between “stars” on the one hand and “deaths and disasters” on the other. But, as Andy Warhol asked in his early years of silk screening, what’s the difference between our fascination with celebrity and our fascination with car crashes and freak accidents? Tie a couple of these together—like Marilyn Monroe’s suicide or Jackie Kennedy’s public mourning for her slain husband—and you have a media phenomenon. A supernova, according to the trusty Oxford English Dictionary, is “A star that undergoes a sudden and temporary increase in brightnessas a result of an explosion that...
Vandermark Quartet finds inspiration, perfect sound at the Empty Bottle
By Eric Benson / April 7, 2006
Playing to a sparse but attentive Tuesday night crowd at the Empty Bottle, the awkwardly named—but pristine sounding—Kessler/Lonberg-Holm/McBride/Vandermark Chamber Quartet balanced improvisational fire with the crisp resonance of fully acoustic music. Jazz has a grand tradition of coping with poor acoustic settings, from clinking glasses and chatting patrons to out-of-tune pianos and sloppy amplification. The music has often had to thrive in spite of its sonic surroundings. With the Chamber Quartet however, pure and resonant sound was the focus, not the obstacle, of the music. This care towards sound was the result of both the group’s instrumentation and its collective...
Pink insists her career’s not Deadbut fourth album tells a different story
By Emale Gray / April 7, 2006
After listening to Pink’s latest effort, I’m Not Dead, two things become clear: 1) this CD is a waste of time and 2) the Pink that used to be considered decent is officially “dead.” With her vicious lyrics and pungent voice, Pink broke into the music industry, giving music connoisseurs something new and interesting to mull over. Her first album, 2000’s Can’t Take Me Home, presented a witty smartass who had a predilection for hip-hop music and thuggish boys. Pink’s sophomore effort, 2001’s Missundaztood, revolutionized her whole image, not only pushing her voice to new limits but also scrapping her...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)April 7, 2006
By Stephanie Mielcarek / April 7, 2006
Friday, April 7 I don’t know if they’ll be as hot as DiCaprio and Danes—or even Whiting and Hussey—but a few bucks is worth it to see a rendition of this classic. Take in Romeo and Juliet, presented by the Dean’s Men in the Reynold’s Club Francis X. Kinahan Third Floor Theater. ($5 in advance, $8 at the door. 8 p.m.) Get prepped for the Dance Marathon by learning bhangra at the SASA Bhangra Party. (free, Ida Noyes Cloister Club, 8:30-11 p.m.) Alternately, skank at the Logan Square Auditorium to the Unseen, the Casualties, and Anti-Flag. ($15, 2539 North Kedzie...
Get a LifeApril 7, 2006
By Jane Lopes / April 7, 2006
I am sick. And not that cute, rosy-nosed kind of sick. The phlegm-producing, daily-hygiene-reducing, demonic-cough-inducing kind of sick. So for my sake—and everyone else’s—I have sequestered myself indoors as much as possible. As a result, the extent to which I have “gotten a life” in the last week has been walking the 50 feet from my apartment to Cornell Dollar for tissues and then trudging to class only to piss people off with my sniffling and stifled coughs. But the fact that I’m not having fun doesn’t mean you can’t. Below are my sources, what I use to find cool...
“Werner Wednesdays” bring German New Wave director’s work to campus
By Oliver Mosier / April 7, 2006
Many students look forward to the new Doc schedule. Disappointed by this winter’s output, I couldn’t wait for the spring schedule. (The nights of Kung Fu soccer last quarter were not enough to drag me to the movies.) Nonetheless, redemption appears to have come in the form of the German New Wave. Now, Wednesdays stand for Werner. Werner Herzog, the illustrious and controversial German director, is the subject of a weekly showing this quarter. In fact, many weeks have two films from, about, or connected to the acclaimed filmmaker. Instead of opting for the obvious choices, Doc Films gambled correctly...
Ghostface Killah’s Fishscale slays the competition
By Greg Brown / April 4, 2006
On “Kilo,” from the brand new Fishscale, Ghostface Killah wants the aspiring coke dealers to know that “a kilo is a thousand grams—it’s easy to remember.” And if you can make enough money slingin’, then you’re gonna get the panties, too. I think it’s pretty clear we’ve all missed Ghostface’s presence in the rap game. With his latest release Fishscale, he’s come back with one of the most solid albums of any genre this year. It’s another gem of an album that continues the incredible Wu-Tang legacy while furthering his reputation as one of our generation’s best emcees. Some of...
This stomach-churning film needs to Slither back to where it came from
By Matt Johnston / April 4, 2006
Slither is being marketed as a comedy. That’s something like marketing Basic Instinct 2 as a romance. I won’t deny that James Gunn’s new movie has a few laughs, but the overall humor-to-gore ratio is depressingly low. Each sequence subjects us to a dozen minutes of some of the most disgusting material ever screened in mainstream theaters, only allowing for a small chuckle at the end. Gunn seems confused about the difference between satire and emulation. At some point, after the umpteenth vivisection, Slither is no longer mocking all the vile, misanthropic horror movies that precede it; it is just...
Eat Your Heart OutApril 4, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / April 4, 2006
Everyone knows that Argentina is a country famed for its beef. After having spent spring break in Buenos Aires and Cordoba, a town in the northeast region of the country, I can attest wholeheartedly that Argentina is a country that is justly proud of its meat. But what I did not know about Argentina—until I got there—was that it is a country that is also proud of its ice cream (or helado, as it’s known en español). Of course this seems like a logical progression: Where there is good beef, there should be good dairy, and where there is good...
Director Jason Reitman discusses his controversial Thank You for Smoking
By Matt Zakosek / April 4, 2006
Director Jason Reitman is someone who deserves our respect, even if we can’t entirely believe him—much like the shady tobacco lobbyist in his current satire, Thank You for Smoking. I interviewed Reitman in his room on the twelfth floor of downtown Chicago’s Ritz Carlton with two other college journalists. Not surprisingly, the first question anyone thought to ask was, “Are you a smoker?” Reitman isn’t. He is a fan of bears and the novel Devil in the White City, which goes a long way toward describing the circuitous route of our conversation. Reitman, son of Hollywood megaproducer Ivan Reitman, says...
Couture du JourApril 4, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / April 4, 2006
As we were settling back into the doldrums of busy work during first week, relaxing until the actual work of second week came, the South Asian Student Association (SASA) was furiously putting together their culture show. This year’s show, Khath (which is a letter detailing a journey through India), not only sold out Mandel Hall but also required hundreds of volunteers for its success. While they managed to present practically every South Asian dance known to man, they also squeezed in a delightful fashion show filled with color, sparkle, and finesse. The fashion show presented a division between modern and...
Harry and the Potters demonstrate their rock wizardry at Ida Noyes
By Tim Murphy / April 4, 2006
With stage antics that would put Iggy Pop to shame, Harry and the Potters rocked Ida Noyes Wednesday night in front of a near-capacity crowd. Norwood, Massachusetts–based brothers and “Wizard rock,” genre pioneers Joe and Paul DeGeorge delivered an hour-plus set of songs inspired by the bestselling books. The third floor of Ida Noyes may not have the luster of, say, Mandel Hall, but for a group that’s risen to prominence through gigs at bookstores and libraries, the small-time setting was more than enough for the wizards to work their magic. The band formed in 2002 as a gametime addition...
Thank You for Smoking sets tobacco culture ablaze
By Matt Zakosek / March 31, 2006
Nick Naylor is scum. As embodied by Aaron Eckhart—somewhere between his saintly boyfriend from Erin Brockovich and walking personification of evil from In the Company of Men—the guy is pleasant enough company for an hour and a half, but you’re not going to remember much of him once the final credits roll. Naylor is a spokesman for the Academy of Tobacco Studies, or, in his words, the “Colonel Sanders of nicotine.” During the course of the film, he will refer affectionately to teenage smokers, bribe an outspoken opponent with a suitcase full of money, and basically bemoan the fact that...
Gavin Hood’s Oscar-winning Tsotsi puts South African cinema on the map
By Brian White / March 31, 2006
Tsotsi opens with a beautiful, expansive shot of the skyline in a Johannesburg slum at sunset. Heat and tension hang as heavy as the smog in the air as the film transitions to a closed, stuffy room. A man looks out the window as a king might survey his corrupt, dilapidated kingdom. “What’re we going to do tonight, Tsotsi?” another man asks. Tsotsi turns quickly from the window, and a powerful rhythm that shakes the walls of the theater starts up. From that moment on, Tsotsi never lets go of its audience, carrying them through a powerful tale of crime,...
Flipsyde distinguish themselves from uninspired masses with mix of rap, rock
By Emale Gray / March 31, 2006
Let’s play the game “How many times can 50 Cent swear in one song?” Or maybe we can see which new R-and-B crooner is on the radio moaning to yet another overproduced mess of a song. And let’s not forget the incessant grating of Fall Out Boy. Why not transfer some of the time wasted on the aforementioned artists to sample the up-and-coming quartet Flipsyde? Not only does the group put their own spin on the spelling of “flipside,” but they also redefine it by fusing hip hop, rock, and Latin music and creating a trademark sound all their own....
Denzel Washington, Clive Owen light up the latest Spike Lee joint
By Oliver Mosier / March 31, 2006
What could be more conventional than the bank heist film? You have cops, robbers, and a twist. Nevertheless, each year, somebody takes a shot at it. In 2006, that ambitious director is Spike Lee. Unbelievably, Inside Man manages to avoid the clichés that pepper any heist film while simultaneously creating a product of suspense, humor, and intelligence. Denzel Washington, Clive Owen, Jodie Foster, Willem Dafoe, and Christopher Plummer headline the marquee. Chiwetel Eljiofor (previously seen in Melinda and Melinda, arguably the worst Woody Allen film of all time) rounds out the cast. But what makes the film intriguing is not...
Get a LifeMarch 31, 2006
By Jane Lopes / March 31, 2006
Key lime pie. There’s a certain ring to it. Key lime pie. The tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down the palate to tap, at three, on the teeth. Key. Lime. Pie. (Lolita, anyone?). So I don’t have quite the same passion for Key lime pie as that of an aging academic for the eponymous nymphet (and I sincerely hope that no one does). But that’s not to say that the dessert does not hold some power over me. Below is a rundown of some of the Key lime pies I’ve had in Chicago—all at places...
Naughty Beastie Boys drop the F-bomband a pretty good concert film, too
By Ethan Frenchman / March 31, 2006
Beastie Boys have, over a career of 27 years, become some of pop culture’s greatest masters of reinvention. Such an outcome is surprising for a trio of Jewish punks, now in their early 40s, who got their start in Brooklyn in 1979. Beastie Boys released four albums that reached the top of the Billboard charts, pioneered the use of sampling, paved the way for white MCs, and have had their music videos chronicled in the prestigious Criterion Collection. It then makes sense that Beastie Boys would combine their music and video talents to redefine the concert film. Directed by Nathaniel...
New Chappelle doc shows Davey from the Block
By Matt Zakosek / March 7, 2006
Even with two jokes about an industrious prostitute and a man with an incredibly short penis, Dave Chappelle’s Block Party is surprisingly short on the one-liners. What it has in spades is a completely unexpected sentimentality. With direction by Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind’s Michel Gondry, it just may turn out to be the feel-good movie of the year. Gondry does an excellent job contrasting Chappelle’s man-on-the-street interviews with scenes from the actual block party, which took place on September 18, 2004. Chappelle’s all-star lineup includes Kanye West, who delivers an electrifying rendition of “Jesus Walks,” and Erykah Badu,...
Danú give their All to the tradition of Irish musichornpipes included
By Dave Aftandilian / March 7, 2006
I first heard Danú play live five or six years ago, right around the time they released their second album, Think Before You Think, which is still one of my favorites. They were a lot younger than most of the Irish traditional bands I’d heard play before; most of the members were still in their late teens, so they weren’t as polished as players who had decades of experience. But they still had an incredible, infectious energy that drew in even the most jaded listeners. A lot of water has flowed under Danú’s bridge since then—the band has a different...
Killers will make your heart pound and head spin
By William Chyr / March 7, 2006
What do you get when you put on a play about five people living together who are all dancing on the edge of insanity, in a small and intimate theater setting? Answer: an insanely intense dramatic experience unlike anything else. Going into Mary-Arrchie’s production of Killers by John Olive, I knew absolutely nothing about the play; I had never heard of the company, the playwright, or the play. I had simply chosen to review it because the title sounded pretty cool. I went into the theater with no idea of what to expect and came out blown away. I was...
Free jazz flourishes at Chicago’s Velvet Lounge
By Nick Morrison / March 7, 2006
The Velvet Lounge is closing. I know—people have been saying it was closing for two years now, but I have it from Fred Anderson himself. The end is definitely near. March will, in all likelihood, be the Velvet’s last full month. It will re-open in its new space shortly thereafter. I’ll say bluntly that one of the purposes of this article is to get everyone who reads it to go one last time—or for the first time—to the original space before it closes. The info you need: It’s open Wednesday through Sunday. (I highly recommend Thursday nights, although Saturday, March...
Eat Your Heart OutMarch 7, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / March 7, 2006
Just when it seemed like winter was finally over and I would be able to start enjoying springtime food again—treats like kabobs on the grill, fruit salad, and gazpacho—a snowfall covered the grounds of Chicago and reminded me that I won’t be getting off so easily. Although it took me awhile to consider the reasons why a snowfall would be beneficial to me, I was able to think of two things: hot cocoa and soup. There is nothing better to do on a blustery day than to take two mugs, fill one with cocoa and the other with soup, and...
Not just a jazz man, Davis deserves his spot in Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
By Oliver Mosier / March 7, 2006
Miles Davis may embody jazz, but to limit him to jazz would be overlooking more than two decades of musical evolution. Apparently someone has acknowledged his impact beyond jazz, because Davis will be posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on March 13 at New York City’s Waldorf Astoria Hotel. Although artists like Black Sabbath and Blondie will also be inducted at the ceremony, it’s Davis—even in death—who has captured the audience’s intrigue. How did a jazz musician who dropped out of Julliard to play with Charlie Parker become a rock ’n’ roll icon? After creating modal...
Couture du JourMarch 7, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / March 7, 2006
I never agree with the winners of the Oscars. We all know that Crash was a terrific movie, but it wasn’t a Best Picture. The same goes for Chicago; it was good, but it wasn’t the best. What about Shakespeare in Love? Let’s just say the Academy was way off on that one. So for me, there’s no reason to watch the Oscars—except to judge everyone’s triumphs and follies on the red carpet. Though I hold my breath in anticipation of someone tripping in their sky-high Manolos, I couldn’t care less about what they’re presenting. Here are my nominations for...
Pacifica Quartet reasserts its skills with popular, challenging pieces
By Malkah Bressler / March 7, 2006
The audience size of the Pacifica Quartet has grown tremendously over the past few years. Whereas two years ago, Mandel Hall was a sea of empty chairs during a performance, a surge of concert-going enthusiasts have recently taken the hall by storm. Such was the case this past Sunday when the Pacifica Quartet presented their penultimate concert of the 2005-2006 season. With this welcoming and excited group of people, the overwhelming sense of expectation was enough to hint at the possibility of a brilliant concert. In performances past, the Pacifica has been less than brilliant. Recycling pieces and playing with...
Predictions and preferences for the big night
By John Frame / March 3, 2006
This year’s Academy Awards ceremony will likely bear a few big surprises, as independent films battle it out in one of the most exciting Oscar races in recent years. Here’s my look at this year’s race, with my predictions and preferences in the top categories. Best Picture Brokeback Mountain leads the pack with not only the most nominations but also lots of buzz. Many critics say that Brokeback is losing steam after an exhausting month of racking up nearly every major precursor award for a motion picture, but that’s just plain wrong. Brokeback’s closest competitor in the Best Picture category...
Understanding the Other in 2005’s movies
By Thomas Manganaro / March 3, 2006
This Oscars season, I think it’s worth noting a significant attempt to pay attention to the portrayal of the Other culture—the African, the Arab, and the Native American. In Hollywood history, it has been popular to portray such cultures as unrecognizable and even villainous. American movies have also commonly used the Other culture as a setting in which the white American hero prospers. Just think of Josh Hartnett in Black Hawk Down or Brendan Fraser in The Mummy. Collectively, those films have the ultimate effect of ignoring the lives of those “in the background.” 2004’s Hotel Rwanda and 2005’s The...
Night Watch is a violent, visceral ride from Russia
By Matt Johnston / March 3, 2006
Night Watch, a new film from previously unknown director Timur Bekmambetov, has been making waves since its July 2004 release revitalized the Russian film industry. Considering that the Russian film industry has consisted of very little since the fall of the Soviet Union—or perhaps since the death of Sergei Eisenstein—this may be less than incredible news. In its entire domestic run, Night Watch grossed a mere $16 million. That Return of the King made even less during its Russian run is more a comment on rampant piracy than on the particular success of this new nightmarish creation. What is actually...
The WB and UPN marry, but will baby be happy?
By Ilana Emmett / March 3, 2006
Despite the fact that two out of the 16 “geeks” on the reality show Beauty and the Geek have gone to the U of C, most students here probably don’t even know what channel the show is on. As of September, there might be even more confusion. This January, TV networks UPN and the WB (which currently airs the show) announced that they would be coming together to create one network called the CW. (The C is for UPN parent company CBS and the W for WB’s Warner Brothers.) Most reports on the new network expressed shock and surprise about...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)March 3, 2006
By Hana Yoo / March 3, 2006
Friday / March 3 Come to the Otium reading with Achy Obejas, Megan Stielstra, Emily Alpert, and Bayo Ojikutu, all contributors to the online prose magazine. A chocolate feast follows. (7–9 p.m., free, Rosenwald 405, 1101 East 58th Street) Moda is releasing a new issue of its magazine and putting on a vintage fashion show to boot. Hustle on over to Hutch Commons to enjoy a full-fledged fashion show, the work of 12 designers, music by Sha Liu, a video display by Ben Kolak, and photography by Glass Eyeball. (9 p.m., $2 in advance, $3 at the door, $5 VIP,...
Get a LifeMarch 3, 2006
By Jane Lopes / March 3, 2006
What is it about the end of the quarter that draws parents to the U of C? It doesn’t make sense that they should swarm at the time when we have the most work—and when we will probably see them again in a couple weeks. But, for whatever reason, all my friends seem to have family visiting. And the parental visit—for me, at least—is about one thing: food. It’s about seeking out a restaurant that is amazing and amazingly expensive, dressing up in fancy clothes, hopping in a velour-upholstered rental car, and having a gluttonous multi-course meal without looking at...
Tweedy treats students to intimate acoustic set
By Jim Ryan / February 28, 2006
It seems the Major Activities Board (MAB) has nailed the formula for its fall and winter shows. For the second time this year, MAB brought an artist to Mandel Hall who promised, if nothing else, an intimate performance. Rufus Wainwright’s fall show allowed the audience to get friendly with a familiar college act. Expectations for Jeff Tweedy were not very different. The word on everybody’s tongue Saturday night was “insight,” but intimate was really what everyone was feeling. Tweedy and his associates, including but not limited to Wilco, like to put a lot of emphasis on mood. Saturday night, that...
Ragtime great Reginald Robinson combines education with syncopation
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / February 28, 2006
Reginald Robinson recreated a musical era in front of a full Fulton Hall on Thursday night with “Rediscovering Ragtime.” The renowned Chicago musician not only performed his own music and that of many other ragtime musicians but also gave an overview of the history of the music and the lives of the composers who created it. The mood was relaxed as Robinson, 33, sat nonchalantly at the piano and addressed the audience as though engaged in casual conversation. For a well known musician and recipient of a MacArthur Genius Grant, he was extremely humble and laid-back. “Everyone hears about how...
Eat Your Heart OutFebruary 28, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / February 28, 2006
Among foodies, a question invariably arises at dinner parties that results in a macabre game of one-upmanship: If you were to die tomorrow, what would you choose as your last meal? The answer to the question usually goes one of three ways. People either select simple foods from childhood, foods that elicit nostalgic memories, or foods that are so improbable and outlandish that it is evident they have been compulsively researching, waiting for this very moment to exhibit their gastronomic knowledge and prowess. The acclaimed food writer Jeffrey Steingarten falls into the latter category, as evidenced by his response to...
Couture du JourFebruary 28, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / February 28, 2006
While winter always leaves me feeling like it will never be warm again—and I will always have a thick overcoat to protect me from the elements—spring is, of course, right around the corner. In Chicago, spring lasts about two weeks, but it’s a glorious period of time between the frigid winter months and the sweaty, humid months of summer. As always, the spring/summer season is an interesting mix of different styles to keep everyone happy, rather than the uniform style of autumn that everyone seems to fall into. This spring, we have many different tastes to look forward to: a...
Brendel, Takács, and the concept of narratives
By Manasi Vydyanath / February 28, 2006
“Forcing a comparison” is usually the phrase that comes to mind when a reviewer attempts to critique two concerts in one article. However, occasions exist when distinct performances work together to illustrate a critical point so perfectly that one is inclined to agree with Shakespeare: Chance fashions events much better than one could lay down in likelihood. And such was the case with both the Takács quartet concert last Friday at Mandel Hall and the Alfred Brendel/Daniel Barenboim performance Saturday evening with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. The programs both spanned roughly the same time period—from the old to the new...
With new book, U of C alum offends to the Max
By Jared Sagoff / February 24, 2006
Ladies, start your engines. Or, better yet, lock your doors. Just when you thought he’d finally grown up, gotten his law degree and—God forbid!—entered the real world, U of C campus legend Tucker Max (A.B. ’98) has published a bestselling compilation of his combat stories from the front lines of the War on Decency. In I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell, Max relates his tales of wanton debauchery, incorrigible misogyny, and just general sinfulness that have made him either the conquering hero or the prodigal son of a university not known for its affiliation with week-long benders and sexual...
Aussie duo the Veronicas steal from better artists, and that’s no “Secret”
By Emale Gray / February 24, 2006
After looking up the name “Veronica” on wikipedia.org, it was clear that the name had many praiseworthy attributes. First and foremost is Saint Veronica, who represents the essence of what any Veronica could strive to be. Elvis Costello dedicated a song, “Veronica,” to the mystique of a woman with “a carefree mind of her own and a delicate look in her eye.” Then, after a listing for a “genius of plan,” an Archie Comics cartoon, and a computer search engine, a smudge appears on this list: “a twin-sister pop group from Australia.” This 20-something twin duo do have a little...
Get a LifeFebruary 24, 2006
By Jane Lopes / February 24, 2006
Fodder for humor in this column inevitably centers on disparaging myself or making fun of my subject. I am so enamored with Kitchen Chicago, a shared-use kitchen in Ravenswood Manor, that I may be in for a self-pummeling this week. To get things started: I am impatient to the point of recklessness. As I left the Francisco El stop on the Brown Line (yes, Kitchen Chicago is very far away), I was almost violently molested as I attempted to step over the railroad-crossing gate and it began to rise. In the split second before I cleared the gate unscathed, I...
Stars come out to shine in energetic Metro show
By Oliver Mosier / February 24, 2006
Stars, in their cosmic wisdom, decided to take a much appreciated detour from the heavens last Friday night to appear at Chicago’s prestigious Metro. The music illustrated that the indie rockers were bright and have a few eons to go before they fade away. Opening for the Canadian Stars were the Californian quartet the Elected. Their performance left much to be desired. From a purely superficial point of view, lead singer and guitarist Blake Sennett seemed to be emulating an adolescent John Wilkes Booth. His brown vest and pants, coupled with his thin mustache, conveyed a rather peculiar image. The...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)February 24, 2006
By Hana Yoo / February 24, 2006
Friday, February 24 Former Fire Escape president and Rhodes Scholar Maria Cecire’s documentary, Momentum: Math and Science Teachers in Zambia, enjoys a screening at the Film Studies Center. A Question and Answer follows the 28-minute film. (5 p.m., free, 5811 South Ellis Avenue) Cherish strong opinions about Madame Bovary? Swing by the Social Science Research Building this afternoon for the 2006 Sigmund H. Danziger Jr. Distinguished Lecture in the Humanities. University of Paris VIII philosophy professor emeritus Jacques Ranciere delivers a lecture, “Why Emma Bovary Had To Be Killed: Some Reflections on Literature, Medicine, and Democracy,” in Room 122. (4:30...
UT’s R and G breaks this winter of discontent
By Joel Lanceta / February 21, 2006
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead is one of my favorite plays. Tom Stoppard doesn’t create a new, excessive story for Hamlet’s doomed duo. No—they’re still stuck as hapless bystanders in Hamlet’s story. And that’s his stroke of genius. Turning the play to their point of view, Stoppard uses Rosencrantz and Guildenstern to expand on Hamlet’s themes of existence, fate, and (in)action. A great production of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead should communicate the tension between reality and theater (all the world’s a stage, right?) and the futility of the twosome to escape its scripted fate. In this production, director Will...
Von Trier’s heavy-handed Manderley aims for a few too many targets
By Matt Johnston / February 21, 2006
Manderlay, the latest film by Danish director Lars von Trier, is not so much a position piece as it is an imprecise spray of angry criticism. Nothing is safe from its venom. It attacks democracy and fascism, capitalism and communism, freedom and slavery, and basically every other formation of power that has ever been attempted. The result is nowhere near as good as its predecessor, Dogville. However, the chalk-lined soundstage, which serves as a minimalist set in both films, remains an effective means of communicating feeling. As a result, the film is a little more engrossing and a lot less...
Couture du JourFebruary 21, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / February 21, 2006
Her hair is pulled back in a large coif that sits on top of her forehead, plastered perfectly in place with unknown products that her hairdresser Danilo meticulously combed through her hair. A white ponytail falls down her back, and big silver hoop earrings bounce around as she babbles away to the press. Gwen Stefani produced her first runway show during New York Fashion Week in September 2005, marking the launch of her career in fashion design. This platinum blonde with a small figure broke into entertainment back in 1996 with her band No Doubt. Ten years later, she has...
Eat Your Heart OutFebruary 21, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / February 21, 2006
With the outside temperature hovering around -7 degrees, and gusts of icy winds screeching through the streets, little has tempted me recently to go outdoors. Going to class has proven a challenge, and, when I do head to campus, I most certainly take the bus back and forth. And I am most certainly not making it to the grocery store, for the thought of carrying a load of groceries down 55th Street in the cold sounds about as fun as a trip to the dentist to get my wisdom teeth pulled. So then, what exactly have I been doing while...
Worried couples wage war in Well-Appointed Room
By Nora Hanna / February 17, 2006
You’re at the University of Chicago, so you’ve probably taken a class, any class, that you and your friends secretly call “Semantic Bullshit.” You could go one of two ways on your professor—you could have a crush on him (even though he’s pretentious as they come) or resent him for being so obnoxious. Well, I must admit—upon seeing Richard Greenberg’s The Well-Appointed Room at the Steppenwolf Theater, I developed a girl crush on its leading woman, Amy Morton. The play’s smart and slightly elitist repartee is mesmerizing. Morton, as Natalie, attacks her husband with her witty and articulate banter. Even...
A Good Woman is hard to find in this bloodless Oscar Wilde adaptation
By Matt Johnston / February 17, 2006
Like its title, A Good Woman is passably interesting, but not quite poetic. Based on the Oscar Wilde play Lady Windermere’s Fan, it shares quite a lot with the rest of Wilde’s work. It has many witty quotations that will send you scrambling for a pencil, but not much substance that you will remember a few days later. Wilde’s The Importance of Being Earnest has worked as a movie twice, in 1952 and 2002. Earnest, however, has better source material, and both films featured actors who brought energy to somewhat tired situation comedy. A Good Woman is more sentimental. It...
It’s his Block Party, and Dave Chappelle will cry all the way to the bank
By Oliver Mosier / February 17, 2006
He’s not Rick James, bitch. He’s Dave Chappelle. And he’s not crazy—at least, not yet. Following months of mystery surrounding his controversial disappearance, Chappelle decided to jump back on the scene in style. Oprah, Lipton, dinner, and a movie. Sounds like a good first date. Chappelle’s back. Let’s hope it’s for good this time. The son of academics, Chappelle saw a career in comedy as a way to make money but still maintain his happiness. His cinematic résumé is far from spectacular. It includes such gems as Robin Hood: Men In Tights, You’ve Got Mail, and Con Air. And who,...
Get a LifeFebruary 17, 2006
By Jane Lopes / February 17, 2006
Chicago Craft Mafia. It sounds pretty sinister, and it indeed felt that way as I walked down North Milwaukee Avenue last Friday night, past barred-up sporting goods stores and darkened shop windows, on my way to the Second Annual St. Valentine’s Day Craftsacre—like “massacre,” but with crafts. Get it? A fair showcasing and selling crafts from members of the Chicago Craft Mafia, the event raised money for 826CHI, a non-profit that offers tutoring and education programs to improve literacy among children. Twenty percent of all profits from the St. Valentine’s Day Craftsacre went to 826CHI, as well as all proceeds...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)February 17, 2006
By Hana Yoo / February 17, 2006
Friday / February 17 Look for good deals on clothes, books, shoes, and assorted odds and ends—and feel good about yourself in the process—at tonight’s Rummage Sale for Darfur Relief, sponsored by Amnesty International, the Muslim Students’ Association, and Givingtree. Proceeds from the event benefit Oxfam relief efforts. (6–11 p.m., free, 5706 South University Avenue) Mozart’s 250th birthday party continues with the Takacs Quartet’s Mandel Hall concert tonight. With guest violist James Dunham, the quartet performs Schubert’s String Quartet in A Minor, Bartok’s String Quartet No. 2, and Mozart’s Quintet for Strings in C Major. (8 p.m., $11 for students,...
Folk festival uproots tunes from Appalachia to Asia
By Isaac Wolf / February 14, 2006
Step back 200 hundred years in Appalachia to meet Abner Vance. Red with rage, Vance demanded revenge after a neighbor stole his daughter’s virtue. Vance was a hunter or preacher or both, depending on who tells the lore. He had a verbal altercation with the neighbor, Lewis Horton. And then, unsatisfied, Vance did what any self-respecting 19th-century Appalachian hunter/preacher would do: He aimed his shotgun squarely at Horton for “suiting her wrong” and squeezed the trigger. Apprehended and sentenced to death, Vance composed a poem during his two years in jail. He was often heard singing it. Like any great...
Art and administration mix in final Hyde Park Art Society exhibit at del Prado
By Jenny Fisher / February 14, 2006
On opening day of the exhibit For Real, held by the Hyde Park Art Center, a leak sprung from the ceiling, gushing water onto an administrator’s desk and computer. Needless to say, the administrator wasn’t pleased. Yet one of the artists, Marie Krane Bergman, described it as “a beautiful moment.” Bergman is a member of Cream Company, the collective of artists who designed For Real, the last exhibit to be held at the del Prado building on South Hyde Park Boulevard before the Hyde Park Art Center moves to its new location at 5020 South Cornell this spring. For this...
Eat Your Heart OutFebruary 14, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / February 14, 2006
So it’s Valentine’s Day—a great day if you’re in a relationship, and kind of a crappy one if you aren’t. Now for those of you who read this column and are currently dating someone, you might want to think back to the chocolate body paint taste test (Eat Your Heart Out, November 15, 2005). If there’s ever a day for chocolate body paint, it’s Valentine’s Day. Nevertheless, I realize that some people just might not be into body paint, and they might be seeking some tasty fun that is a bit more PG-13. That’s why brownies are a good alternative....
Couture du JourFebruary 14, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / February 14, 2006
Project Alabama is not your everyday, high-end fashion-design house. It’s more like your little old Grandma’s best friend’s quilting group that is suddenly making it big. It all started when Natalie “Alabama” Chanin and Enrico Marone-Cinzano met in New York and decided to create a fashion house. Since then it has become a large-scale, hand-made, high-end company with an amazing spring/summer 2006 line that has introduced Project Alabama to the masses. After Chanin met Marone-Cinzano in 2000, she went to Alabama to design the start-up T-shirts to launch the company. These vintage T-shirts are one of a kind, each decorated...
When it comes to Brendel’s classical piano, Symphony Hall trumps Mandel
By Nicholas Morrison / February 14, 2006
If you have modern Philips CD recordings (or MP3s, for that matter) of any classical piano repertoire, chances are you have some Alfred Brendel. I know my Beethoven and Schubert primarily through his renditions. The Phillips recordings are perfectly engineered, clear, and crisp. Through good speakers, they are probably the best way to hear recordings of piano sonatas—as opposed to string quartets, the warmth of which is perhaps better conveyed on vinyl. Hyde Park residents often knock Symphony Hall when it comes to hearing chamber music. We are very proud of Mandel Hall’s acoustics and intimacy when it comes to...
Belle and Sebastian continue their Life Pursuit of idiosyncratic songcraft
By Oliver Mosier / February 14, 2006
Sponges tend to sop up whatever covers their surroundings. The character of a sponge is understood by what it absorbs and then by what it releases. Stuart Murdoch of Belle and Sebastian is the perfect sponge. The lead singer and guitarist of the Scottish band finds influences from every genre imaginable. The material on the group’s new album, The Life Pursuit—their sixth overall—takes an element from every page of the musical bible. On The Life Pursuit, each track emits something different, unique, and significant. The sound of The Life Pursuit is composed of ’40s blues, ’50s country, ’60s soul, ’70s...
Come for the goodies, stay for the glory of Sundance
By Zo Samels / February 7, 2006
If you followed mainstream press coverage of the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah this past January, you probably got the impression that Sundance isn’t really about watching independent movies. I would have to reluctantly agree. In the four days I spent covering the festival, I did see a fair number of movies, usually more than one a day. But I also spent a lot of time buying expensive hot beverages, trekking up and down Main Street, eating out, and exploring all the events my press pass could give me access to. And of course, I did a lot...
Jack Johnson’s melodic, eclectic Curious George soundtrack is not just for kids
By Emale Gray / February 7, 2006
If you have ever heard Jack Johnson’s music, it’s obvious he is the perfect musician to produce the soundtrack to an animated film. And what better film than Curious George—a cartoon about an inquisitive little monkey that is adored by children worldwide? Johnson is renowned for his ruminative and engrossing style, and this soundtrack displays his veritable talents. The Curious George soundtrack is the fourth soundtrack that Johnson has produced since April 2005. Johnson has also created three meaningful solo albums, all of which have left respectable marks on the Billboard charts. And now, after years of acoustic hits for...
Tommy Lee Jones finds black humor among corpses in Three Burials
By Matt Johnston / February 7, 2006
The killing of Melquiades Estrada is technically an accident, but one careless and unnecessary enough to make the blood run cold. Mike Norton (Barry Pepper), a U.S. Border Patrol employee, is busy masturbating when he hears gunfire. He shoots back only to realize that the original fire was directed at a coyote. Now Estrada is dead, the innocent bystander in an imagined battle. Norton leaves him to rot behind a bush in the desert. Given the title of Tommy Lee Jones’s The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada, though, we know that Estrada’s body has not found its final resting place...
Forget Tower RecordsChicago’s Jazz Record Mart stores history on vinyl
By Oliver Mosier / February 7, 2006
The smell is the first thing that catches you when you stroll in for the first time. It isn’t musty or offensive to the nose, but rather, historic. That smell—the distinct odor of vinyl and nostalgia—brings you back to the early days of jazz and the blues. The doors let you travel back to a time when jazz ruled. Jazz Record Mart is just such a musical palace. The store is nestled away on East Illinois and Wabash in downtown Chicago. Instantly, you are bombarded with infinite aisles of albums. It is a place that opens your eyes—and more importantly,...
Couture du JourFebruary 7, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / February 7, 2006
In today’s constantly colliding worlds of high fashion and street-chic, jeans have changed from shabby grunge to highbrow elegant. While making this journey, the cost of a pair of jeans has risen to outlandish heights. It all started in 2000 with the company Seven for All Mankind. Since then, independent jeans companies, tailoring high-priced pants and jackets, have sprung up all over the world, and consumers have been grabbing them off the racks. Jeans finished their journey to high fashion when designers starting hand-making them to their owner’s size. When and why did this happen? Peter Koral started his Seven...
Eat Your Heart OutFebruary 7, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / February 7, 2006
It was in Meridian, Mississippi where my grandmother, affectionately known as Big Mama, was born, and it was in Meridian that she died last Wednesday at the age of 92. For those who don’t know, Meridian is one of the larger cities in Mississippi, which, I admit, is not saying much. I traveled to Meridian this past weekend for her funeral, and it has changed a lot from the days when my grandmother raised my mother there—it has become, as Bohumil Hrabal titled one of his books, the little town where time stood still. The center of town was devoid...
Remarkable delivery saves play from first-time jitters
By Ethan Stanislawski / February 3, 2006
In contemporary American society, the word “Rwanda” is not associated as much with the country in East Africa, but instead with the mass murder of over 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus in April 1994 that shook up the world’s idea of foreign intervention and the U.N.’s role in world peacekeeping. What no one seems to mention when they talk about Rwanda, however, is the individual lives of those killed. With I Have Before Me A Remarkable Document Given to Me by A Young Lady from Rwanda, first-time playwright Sonja Linden tries to correct the lack of human connection with the...
A spoonful of sugar doesn’t make Nanny McPhee any easier to swallow
By Matt Johnston / February 3, 2006
Nanny McPhee has a promising premise: Seven unruly children get their comeuppance from a hideously ugly Mary Poppins figure, complete with warts, a snaggletooth, and a unibrow. Nanny McPhee has quite a talented cast, including Emma Thompson, practically unrecognizable in the title role, as well as Colin Firth, Angela Lansbury, Imelda Staunton, and even Thomas Sangster, that lovestruck kid from Love Actually. To top it off, Nanny McPhee’s screenplay was written by Thompson herself, who is, by all accounts, a thoroughly smart cookie and no stranger to excellent screenplays. So why is Nanny McPhee such a disappointment? We’ll start with...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)February 3, 2006
By Hana Yoo / February 3, 2006
Friday / February 3 The Diamond and Ice Ball lights up Bloomingdale’s this evening. Enjoy Nitrous Foxide playing live, ice sculptures by Corazón Tequila, an open bar from Skyy Vodka, models displaying jewels and upscale clothes, food from 10 restaurants, a caviar tasting, and chocolate. (6–9 p.m., $40, 900 North Michigan Avenue) Noctis Sero, promoter of alcohol-free fun, is back with Campus Gym Night. Enjoy free FitChicago classes, DDR, dodgeball, pick-up basketball, mocktails, and free sports stress balls tonight at Ratner. (8–11 p.m., free, 5530 South Ellis Avenue) Check out some talented high school students at Walter Payton College Prep’s...
Get a LifeFebruary 3, 2006
By Jane Lopes / February 3, 2006
Come fifth week, with the multitude of papers, midterms, and presentations reaching the peak of its crescendo, getting a life at the U of C means finding time to shower. In an attempt to remember the steps of spermatogenesis and where Richard II’s “my brain I’ll prove the female to my soul” speech is, I forgot laundry, I forgot shaving, and I even forgot that my Dad’s birthday was on Wednesday. Damn! I vowed that this year, though, I would make an effort to get out of Hyde Park, even in my smelly, hairy, and unhygienic state. You really lose...
Tokyo Quartet overwhelms audience with understated tribute to Mozart
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / February 3, 2006
The Tokyo String Quartet celebrated Mozart’s 250th birthday in Mandel Hall on Friday—not with the musical pyrotechnics of his flashier works but with the mild and serene beauty of his Quartet in F Major for Oboe and Strings and the Quintet in A Major for Clarinet and Strings. Both the quartet and soloists played with a captivating sensitivity that made Mozart’s power to entwine the emotions of his audience impossible to ignore. Dvorak’s Quartet in F Major, also known as “The American,” separated the two pieces with welcome flair and excitement. Oboist Alexei Ogrintchouk started the program with an animated...
Feist lights up Park West with a touch of romance
By Oliver Mosier / January 31, 2006
O Canada! It seems that the best indie rock has to offer comes more and more frequently from just north of here. Bands like Broken Social Scene, Stars, the Arcade Fire, and the Elected are just a few of the growing Canadian musical presences here and abroad. Two artists who’ve participated in Broken Social Scene, Leslie Feist and Jason Collett, performed at the quaint club Park West last Friday evening—an event four friends and I were lucky enough to attend. Collett opened the show with his dry Canadian charm by saying, “Chicago totally feels like a big Toronto.” He was...
Orchestra excels with modern MacMillan, but can’t save Schumann’s excesses
By Manasi Vydyanath / January 31, 2006
The highlight of the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra’s January 22 performance was undoubtedly Veni, Veni Emmanuel, a concerto for percussion and orchestra by James MacMillan. It’s one of those rare modern compositions that appears and deserves to evade Slonimsky’s law of recognition, having received over 400 performances since its premiere at the BBC proms in 1992. The work is constructed as a single movement that follows an arch structure and seems to be conceived in almost entirely rhythmic terms, bringing to mind the compositional technique of Bartók. A taut, tense energy permeates the piece and lends a uniquely modern power...
Eat Your Heart Out – January 31, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / January 31, 2006
Dorothy Parker once wrote, “I misremember who first was cruel enough to nurture the cocktail party into life. But perhaps it would be not too much to say, in fact it would be not enough to say, that it was not worth the trouble.” This sentiment is also echoed in Brooks Atkinson’s Once Around the Sun: “The cocktail partyis a device either for getting rid of social obligations hurriedly en masse or for making overtures toward more serious social relationships, as in the etiquette of whoring.” Oh Ms. Parker, Mr. Atkinson, how can you say such things? I have no...
Couture du Jour – January 31, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / January 31, 2006
Lara Miller doesn’t believe a piece of clothing should be worn in just one way. She wants it to be worn in any way possible, and she demonstrates this philosophy in her spring/summer 2006 line. The Chicago-based designer uses what she calls “stylized geometric patterns of various indigenous Mexican textiles” as her inspiration for this upcoming line, but I believe that she is more Greek-influenced. Jersey knit mixed with bamboo blends that complement each other nicely rule the runway for her. The basic staples of the season are a rayon jersey tank top with four long pieces of fabric that...
Folklore Society brings roots musicians to Mandel
By Chris Perry / January 27, 2006
Back in the day, students clamored in the hundreds to attend University of Chicago Folklore Society shows and concerts. That was the early 1960s, when the soulful and driven Kentucky bluegrass of Ralph and Carter Stanley—and the pent-up anger and energy of Skip James’s Mississippi Delta blues—rang fresh in ears already tired of insipid, wholesome folk-music trios like the Kingston Trio and the Weavers. Crowds of young students milling about the Folklore Society office and hallways were hungry just to catch an earful of music on the cutting edge—the pure and electrifying music from the Appalachian Mountains, the Mississippi Delta,...
Nature takes precedence over dialogue in Malick’s quiet New World
By Matt Johnston / January 27, 2006
Pocahontas was America’s first homegrown international celebrity. In 1616, she traveled with her husband to meet King James in England, where she was dubbed the “Indian Princess.” Terrence Malick’s The New World revolves around her, but it isn’t her story so much as a beautiful portrait of the untouched earth and the inevitability of cultural clash. Pocahontas appeals to us as a heroine because we think of her as a love-struck ambassador, the savior-turned-lover of John Smith and a thoroughly cosmopolitan woman, who can sing and dance to bootat least according to the Disney movie, which has no doubt provided...
Imagine Me and You shrewdly eschews politics for cute accents and comic relief
By Alexandra Ensign / January 27, 2006
I’m sure the reaction of everyone who’s seen Four Weddings and a Funeral, Love Actually, and Bridget Jones’s Diary has been: Where is that British lesbian romantic comedy with loads of sap and sass that we’ve been dying to see? After all, England has already jumped the Sapphic hurdle with the popular miniseries Tipping the Velvet and even followed it up with Fingersmith. Neither of those, however, satisfies the craving to curl up in bed with your girlfriend (or four cats) and watch a gay version of Love Actually. Luckily, Imagine Me and You wholeheartedly satisfies that craving. Surprisingly written...
Sentimental Coast of Chicago bridges Pilsen’s postwar past and present
By Rose Dichter Schapiro / January 27, 2006
The Lookingglass Theatre’s production of The Coast of Chicago is framed by a powerful question, spoken by a slightly hammy narrator in the first scene as he peers up towards the ceiling. The narrator, played with a sort of overly intense nostalgia, asks, “Will I ever leave this city?” His semi-wistful sentiment is immediately echoed from the past by younger versions of himself, and the audience is pulled back into the history of both the single, nameless character and the city he has experienced. Coast is based on a lovely book of short stories by Stuart Dybek. It has been...
Voices STD – January 27, 2006
By Hana Yoo / January 27, 2006
Friday / January 27 Bogged down by Sosc reading? Invest an hour in the Academic Skills Assessment Program’s speed reading workshop, held in Social Sciences 122. In true U of C fashion, the workshop features information about “the theory of improving reading skills” alongside exercises to drive your words per minute rate higher. (2:30 p.m., free, 1126 East 59th Street) His Name is Alive opens for Low Friday at the Logan Square Auditorium, with Death Vessel playing first. (8:30 p.m., $15, 2539 North Kedzie Avenue) Off-Off Campus presents the first installment of “Where the Wild Things At?” tonight at University...
Get a Life – January 27, 2006
By Jane Lopes / January 27, 2006
I am sushi-challenged. Up until recently, I didn’t know the difference between sushi and sashimi, between maki and te-maki, and I certainly didn’t know how to eat edamame. My first time at Oysy (pronounced Oh-EE-she), much to the mortification of my dining companion Nora, I confided to our waitress my utter ignorance of all things sushi. This woman—a hip, gorgeous, 20-something Asian woman dressed in all black—did not laugh or scowl, but instead explained with patience all I needed to know. In case you are as unknowledgeable as I was: Sushi is a roll whereas sashimi is just a slab...
Secrets of an American family are laid bare in Fences
By Andrew Hammond / January 24, 2006
The story is simple. Or at least, it seems to be. The year is 1957, and Troy Maxon is a former Negro Leagues baseball star who is building a fence around his yard. Over several years, as he completes this domestic task, we meet his wife, his two sons, his brother, and his best friend. And over the course of the play, we discover who is trying to come in and what Troy is trying to keep out. I have seen six productions at the Court Theatre. But never have I been so overwhelmed by both the power of the...
Davidson’s stark photography challenges viewers to look at a nation divided
By Jenny Fisher / January 24, 2006
While documenting housing discrimination in East Harlem, photographer Bruce Davidson was struck by one man’s statement that, “what you call a ghetto, I call my home.” In the photographs on view at the Catherine Edelman Gallery, Davidson catalogs the unsettling dynamics of American society, from Freedom Riders and lunch counters during the civil rights movement, to tenement living in East Harlem, to the clash of people on a subway in the ’80s. Davidson does all this without romanticizing his subjects and letting the viewer get off easily. His photographs of people living in East Harlem in the ’60s sometimes seem...
Rock me, Amadeus: Two pianists share their thoughts on playing Mozart
By Jessica Sandy / January 24, 2006
Mozart scholar Hermann Abert—referring directly to Concerto for Two Pianos and Orchestra—said, “The pianists share all their melodies, vary each other’s music, interrupt each other, even argue sometimes gently; however, their fraternal agreement is never troubled by serious differences of opinion.” This statement embodies not only the intrinsic nature of the work itself, but also the collaboration between the two extremely talented pianists who are premiering it on the University of Chicago campus. Sventlana Belsky, coordinator of piano studies at the U of C department of music, and Jen Maxwell, the director of public relations for the U of C...
Museum of Contemporary Art sampling sells Alexander Calder slightly short
By Oliver Mosier / January 24, 2006
Master of the mobile, king of the kinetic, an innovator beyond compare. These labels only begin to define the genius of Alexander Calder. A small but definitive selection of his work is on display until August at the Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA) in Chicago. While the exhibit only totals 15 pieces, they manage to encompass Calder’s artistic gamut. His classic wire-supported mobiles are included, of course, along with bronze sculptures, an ink sketch, and even a painting. Calder’s ability to create art from mundane objects such as coffee cans is also on full display. The only things missing from...
Eat Your Heart Out – January 24, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / January 24, 2006
It seems that there are so many kitchen tools these days that appear to make perfect gifts—until you realize that they would be cool for about five minutes and would then live out a very happy life in the back of the kitchen drawer next to the recipes that were clipped out of magazines and then never made. Stores like Sur La Table and Williams-Sonoma are filled with gadgets like these, and I’ll admit I occasionally get excited about a new tool. But then the five minutes go by and I am over it. I mean, life in the kitchen...
Las Tablas will add spice to your life
By Laura Lutz / January 24, 2006
The White House has weighed in. Speaking to the Washington Post recently, newly appointed Chef Cristeta Comerford said, “I like the flavors of the ingredients to stand out. I want them to taste the way they are supposed to, and I don’t like to mask them with spicing.” That’s a common line these days: Heavy spices and fresh ingredients are somehow antagonistic. Somehow the movement toward fresh, high-quality ingredients has mutated into a culture war on spices. Fortunately for seasonings everywhere, restaurants like Las Tablas are prepared to prove that strong flavors are no enemy of fresh food. Las Tablas...
Tristan and Isolde: trying and inept
By Azure Gilman / January 24, 2006
You know this kind of movie—the kind that is so bad that you turn to the poor friend you dragged along with you and say, “I’m so, so sorry.” Yeah, it was kind of like that. When I try to think back to where this movie went wrong, I’m at a loss. Even the things that usually make a bad movie entertaining—battle scenes, cinematography, the occasional comic relief—are either missing entirely or not nearly enough to make up the deficit. I’m not sure which one I want back more, $8.50 or two hours of my life. But maybe I’m getting...
Mozart’s pristine reputation should be reevaluated
By Nicholas Morrison / January 24, 2006
Mozart was born January 27, 1756 (250 years ago this Friday), so don’t be surprised if you hear a lot of him this year. It’s as good a promotional stunt as any, to celebrate a composer’s birthday (or death), and hope that we listeners feel guilty enough to pay enormous sums to hear what is inevitably billed as “timeless” music. Of course, once we are seated in Symphony Hall, with Sir John and one of the most famous orchestras in the world playing Mozart’s “mysterious” last three symphonies, our critical faculties are somewhat subdued. We’ve paid good money to see...
Couture du Jour – January 24, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / January 24, 2006
The 2006 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show aired over a month ago on CBS, and yet it has remained one of the most popular searches on many fashion sites. Why has this show remained in our minds? Because we should all commemorate the one night of the year that Karolina Kurkova, Heidi Klum, Adriana Lima, and Gisele Bundchen walk the same runway. (The fact that they were half-naked is just a bonus.) December 9 was the night of Victoria Secret’s 10th annual fashion show, and it was certainly a night of ultimate entertainment. The show started with a large Victoria’s Secret...
We Are Scientists enjoy strong chemistry with fans
By Leila Sales / January 20, 2006
When We Are Scientists first take the stage at Subterranean on Monday night, they are one man short of a band. Singer and lead guitarist Keith Murray promises the packed club that bassist Chris Cain will be out in a moment. “He’s putting on his protective eye-gear,” says Murray. And indeed, when the mustached Cain comes onstage a moment later, his bug-like glasses make a fashion statement rarely spotted outside of high school chemistry laboratories. It’s OK, though. They are scientists. Ahem. The goggles, along with a debut album named after a J.D. Salinger story (With Love and Squalor, released...
Republican War on Science raises pertinent issues but ultimately loses our vote
By Isaac Wolf / January 20, 2006
A few weeks after Hurricane Katrina hit, I was in Washington, D.C., covering a Senate hearing on the environment. The hearing, titled “Climate Change Science and Economics,” was meant to present to the Senate energy committee information about how to curtail greenhouse gas emissions. At the hearing, environmentalists and economists presented their differing thoughts on how an emissions market could curb pollution. In theory, the Senate committee would take these experts’ suggestions and deliberate on what legislation would best service the American public. But that’s not exactly what happened. Before the experts began to give their opinions, the committee chair,...
Get a Life – January 20, 2006
By Jane Lopes / January 20, 2006
We at the U of C are good at most things. We are good at starting 10-page papers at three in the morning. We are good at calling things Machiavellian. We are good at scheduling, attending, and understanding lectures such as “Elegiac Stanzas in the Etiological Poems of Phanocles and Callimachus.” (This really happened.) But if there is one thing we’re not good at, it’s taking a break. With this in mind, I set out to find what Chicago has to offer in the way of relaxation techniques. I could have gotten a massage, attended a yoga class, or just...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – January 20, 2006
By Hana Yoo / January 20, 2006
Friday / January 20 Kuvia gave you a chance to celebrate winter. Now you can rue it with Beach Night, hosted by Phoenix Phanatix and the Athletic Department. Everybody gets free Hawaiian pizza from Pizza Capri, and the first 500 to arrive get a free lei (get your mind out of the gutter). Those who show up in beach wear also have a shot at cash prizes: $100 goes to the best-dressed individual, $150 to the best-dressed house, and three $100 cash drawings go to houses. So don those Hawaiian shirts and grass skirts with pride and cheer on the...
Glory Road paves the way for better Disney dramas
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 17, 2006
Over the past 15 years, Disney has made a series of uplifting sports movies that, while always emotionally satisfying, vary little from one movie to another. It’s a type of safe yet praiseworthy filmmaking that displays a pattern that is atrociously generic. At this point I should be honest: When a critic tries to shred any trace of sentimentality from his analysis, staples from childhood make this difficult. So although this perpetually winning Little Leaguer (“Everyone gets a trophy!”) found excitement as a child from Cool Runnings and Iron Will, it takes Disney’s newest film, Glory Road—and the emotional associations...
French thriller Caché rachets up the voyeuristic suspense sans payoff
By Matt Johnston / January 17, 2006
Georges and Anne Laurent are not very exciting people. He hosts literature discussions on television. She plays the smiling host at parties. As portrayed by Daniel Auteuil and Juliette Binoche, they are normal people. Their home does not seem to have any windows—just scores and scores of books lining every wall. They are insular, intellectual people. Caché opens with a long take of their townhouse. As the credits appear, we stare, expecting to see something, anything. But we see nothing more than the ordinary goings-on of a quiet street. Then the image is rewound, revealing that we have not been...
Couture du Jour – January 17, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / January 17, 2006
Horizontal corduroy. Don’t get any ideas; it’s already been taken. Chris Lindland was inspired when talking to one of his ex-girlfriends. He wondered why they didn’t exist, and she argued they shouldn’t. Once the girlfriend was gone, he decided to create the first horizontal corduroy pant—and the phenomenon continues growing sideways. Cordarounds.com boasts four different types of horizontal corduroy pants, three horizontal seersucker pants, and two horizontal corduroy jackets for men to saunter around in. They just started a new women’s line, with corduroy skirts. This online company believes it is better for men to wear horizontal corduroy in order...
Eat Your Heart Out – January 17, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / January 17, 2006
Now that winter has descended upon Chicago, I have been yearning to spend more time in the kitchen cooking. Specifically, I have been longing to cook warm, gooey winter dishes, like risotto or thick, chunky soups. My Mary Poppins-esque saying for this quarter goes as follows: “A spoonful of butter helps the winter go down.” I was in the kitchen last week with one of my roommates and we were debating what to make. I was tempted to bake from the book Paris Sweets by Dorie Greenspan, which contains recipes from all of the best bakeries in Paris. Many of...
Third Impressions unearth no Strokes of genius
By Oliver Mosier / January 13, 2006
The first CD from the Strokes, Is This It, simply put, was it. The Strokes were immediately heralded as saviors of rock and roll. Room On Fire extinguished any thoughts of a so-called sophomore slump. But the landing of the Strokes’ third album, First Impressions of Earth, has been far from smooth. The sound that made the Strokes the Strokes was grounded in the basics: attitude and simplicity. The second album was by no means as good as the first, but it was a product of the same musical place. For their third album, it appears the band was so...
New sado-thrillers defile the legacy of horror filmsand cheat audiences
By Matt Zakosek / January 13, 2006
What’s with the new breed of sado-thrillers? It seems every week there’s a new example of extreme violence at the local cineplex: the Saw films, Hostel (which debuted at number one with $20.1 million at the box office), Wolf Creek, High Tension, Chaos, the Texas Chain Saw Massacre remake, and the Rob Zombie slashers (House of 1000 Corpses and The Devil’s Rejects). And that’s just off the top of my head. I love horror movies so much it’s, well, scary. I’m writing my B.A. on them. And that’s why I think this latest trend is alarming—because it mistakes sadism for...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – January 13, 2006
By Hana Yoo / January 13, 2006
Friday / January 13 It’s the last day of Kuvia and time for the infamous Polar Bear Run. Get ready to proudly bare it all, gawk from the sidelines, or assiduously avoid the stampede of naked and near-naked U of Cers. (3 p.m., main quads) Fans of FOUND Magazine may appreciate an exhibit opening today at Intuit: The Center for Intuitive and Outsider Art. “Accidental Mysteries: Extraordinary Vernacular Photographs from the Collection of John and Teenuh Foster” displays 65 vintage snapshots taken by unknown amateurs and found by the Fosters. Feast your eyes on the images at the opening reception....
Enjoy the most important meal of the day at the trendiest spots in town
By Jane Lopes / January 13, 2006
Chicago is a brunch city. I’ve lived in San Francisco, L.A., New York, London, and Rome, and none of them do brunch like Chicago does. On weekend mornings, rain or shine, freezing or just above freezing, hungry Chicagoans can be seen buzzing around the entrances of the city’s most popular brunch locales. People sit on curbs or amble through neighboring stores, patiently waiting—sometimes for over an hour—for a table at these well-worth-it spots: Toast 2046 North Damen Avenue 746 West Webster Avenue The Webster location of Toast, right by the DePaul Lincoln Park campus, is a small affair with tables...
Advantage Allen: Match Point ranks among his best
By Matt Johnston / January 10, 2006
Americans love a good comeback story. What other reason could be given for the resurgence of Mariah Carey than that granting redemption is even more exciting than schadenfreude? Now, with Match Point, Woody Allen hopes for an even grander reentry. Wittily dismissing his work over the past decade was a pleasure, but re-inviting him back into the fold is an even greater pleasure. A lot has been said about how Match Point, a thriller dealing in extramarital affairs and contemplated murders, is not strictly a Woody Allen picture. But that’s all wrong. Even without the white-on-black, slideshow opening credits or...
Lincoln’s Melancholy reveals the torment of the man under the stovepipe hat
By Andrew Hammond / January 10, 2006
There is a reason why more books have been written about Abraham Lincoln than almost any other person (save William Shakespeare and Jesus Christ). Of course, there are the obvious explanations as to why Lincoln is so enticing. He was an inexperienced politician who spent less than two years in Washington, D.C. before arriving in the capital to guide the country through its greatest crisis. He was also the most eloquent writer our nation has ever elected to the highest office, and he crafted arguably the best prose in the English language. Finally, he was taken from this country before...
Dubai Film Festival frees filmmakers from the politics of competition
By Oliver Mosier / January 10, 2006
Heat. Sand. Sun. Snow? In 2005, the first three could finally welcome the fourth into the vast desert of the Arabian Peninsula. Dubai’s enormous Mall of The Emirates houses the region’s only ski resort, an indoor 800-meter slope. When someone wearing shorts looks from the mall to the slope, words like “ridiculous” and “unbelievable” can only begin to illustrate the hilarity of such a scene. At the mall I saw two movies, From Dust and Moolaadé. From Dust depicts the devastation and struggles of Sri Lanka following the tsunami that hit the country in 2005. This documentary gives a face...
Author avoids comparisons between past and present wars
By Isaac Wolf / January 10, 2006
Just how far back does the American war on terror date? All the way to America’s founding, when North African pirates plundered U.S. merchant ships under the banner of Islam, according to a new book, Victory In Tripoli: How America’s War with the Barbary Pirates Established the U.S. Navy and Shaped a Nation. Written by Joshua E. London (A.M. ’98) and published in August, the book details the build-up to the war, which ran from 1801 to 1805, showing how North African leaders encouraged piracy of American merchant ships. Victory focuses on post-Revolution American politics, recounting how the mounting pirate...
Eat Your Heart Out – January 10, 2006
By Lauren Shockey / January 10, 2006
When cooking, there are always certain recipes that I go back to, the ones that I can make in a pinch if I’m ever lost for ideas and need to whip up something tasty. Of course, over time, I no longer need a cookbook to refer back to the instructions—I’ve made the dish so many times that the steps come to me effortlessly. Here are three such recipes. Over time, they have been adapted ever-so-slightly from the original recipes, but these recipes are so good that the difference is hardly noticeable. Creamless Mushroom Soup This is a nice winter soup...
Couture du Jour – January 10, 2006
By Sarah Cohan / January 10, 2006
It’s time to look back at 2005 for the most memorable fashion moments. There were so many events and people to choose from, but these five ultra-fashionable selections stood out to me as the most original and beautiful. 1) Not only does Gwen Stefani have the balls to rename four girls Love, Angel, Music, and Baby (after her L.A.M.B. fashion line), she’s also able to pull off any outfit that her crazy, creative mind can dream up. Her show-stealing outfit this year was the dress that she wore on concert tours for her latest album. Stefani managed to stick with...
Classical music must be reclaimed from the critical elite to be truly appreciated
By Manasi Vydyanath / January 10, 2006
At the beginning of an uncommonly warm January, 250 years after the birth of Mozart, classical music dances on as if in a bedazzled snow globe, bewitching the observer. The crisis, the stagnation, and the beauty continue; but then again, they always did. As every historian is keenly aware, epochs only materialize in the clarity of retrospection, and retrospection in every genre is a unique function of time. Let’s just say that even in the most placid periods of Mendelssohn and Chopin there were fiery prophets of doom, and that 100 years from now, orchestras will still be dying, superb...
Videogames Extra: Animal Crossing Wild World
By Sean Ahmed / January 6, 2006
“Welcome back to the Wild World of Animal Crossing. I’m Rover, your cab driver for today. “So you’re ready to move to a new town, huh? Already maxed out your old mansion and perfected your town’s agriculture? No problem, I know just the place. They’ve been looking for someone new to revitalize this old place. It’s a nice town—beautiful scenery, rolling hills, orange groves, and a great oceanfront—but the residents keep moving out because there hasn’t been enough social activity. They need some young blood like you with friends that will join in too. There’s even an open spot all...
Mario Kart DS packs game for everyone in bite-sized package
By Sean Ahmed / January 6, 2006
For more than a decade, one game has transcended all gaps: gamer and non-gamer, young and old, male and female. In it’s first go-around on the Nintendo DS, that same franchise has now jumped the gap from fun party game to perfection. Mario Kart is back and packed to go. If that’s not enough for you, then you simply don’t have a heart. But the good news for you soulless black holes out there is that this wireless-enabled rendition has the features, graphics, control, and scope to keep you going for a long time. Unlike Nintendo’s simple “Touch Generation” games,...
Steppenwolf satisfies with cerebral After the Quake
By Seth Satterlee / January 6, 2006
One of the hardest tasks for any writer is the adaptation of a book into a film or a play. Doing so ensures harsh criticism from all sides. Nearly everyone expects this new version to be an insult to the original. I admit that rarely have I seen an adaptation fully represent an originally good piece of art, but every once in a while, something comes close. After the Quake, showing at Steppenwolf Theatre, is one of those cases, which is remarkable considering the complexity of the original author, Haruki Murakami. The play is based on the Haruki Murakami book...
Dubai International Film Festival brings variations on everyday suffering
By Oliver Mosier / January 6, 2006
It’s difficult to categorize the cross section of humanity that calls film festivals its home. Sure, the rich and famous lurk in every corner, but often their stories are the least compelling. It’s those desperate people—beings who frequently check their dignity and shame at the door—who interest me. Sadly (yet predictably), their journey usually begins and ends at the red carpet with a view obscured by a security guard’s hand over their faces. Here I was in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Part Las Vegas and part Martian space colony. Construction was everywhere. The not-so-old joke goes that the national...
Neil Jordan dishes out familiar themes, but this is no Breakfast of champions
By Matt Zakosek / January 6, 2006
It is perhaps most helpful to think of Breakfast on Pluto as a prequel to The Crying Game, the vastly superior 1992 drama also directed by Neil Jordan. As in his earlier film, Jordan sets his story in a politically charged Ireland, shoehorns in pop hits from the ’50s and ’60s, and features a transgendered character in a key role. But unlike that contemporary classic, Pluto never forms a cohesive whole. Cillian Murphy plays “Kitten” Brady, who also goes by Patrick or Patricia, depending on who’s asking. The illegitimate child of a priest (played by a sleep-walking Liam Neeson) and...
Spielberg’s ambitious Munich skimps on the emotions behind the explosions
By Matt Johnston / January 6, 2006
A title card helpfully informs us that Munich, Steven Spielberg’s entry for this awards season, is inspired by actual events. Considering that our generation has its own terrorist attacks to remember, I would not be surprised if the majority of college students today were only vaguely aware of the historical setting to which Spielberg refers. Thinking back on my formal education, I cannot recall a single mention of the Munich massacre. Enter Spielberg to remind the general public, in much the same way he did for the Holocaust with Schindler’s List. His new film begins much like Oliver Stone’s JFK,...
Get a Life – January 6, 2006
By Claire Mazur / January 6, 2006
Mazur family vacations always inevitably morph into two-week-long discussions/symposiums/colloquiums/celebrations of my most awful and inherent flaws. So, when conversation at a recent dinner in Milan turned to why I would never find a spouse until I became a more patient/polite/forgiving/accepting person, I wasn’t fazed. But while I long ago gave up on gaining my family’s approval, at 21, I’m not quite ready to admit defeat in marriage—or at least some sort of a long-term emotionally and sexually satisfying partnership. Thus, my New Year’s resolution: to be a nicer person. (You, too, may have concluded that my family is a bunch...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – January 6, 2006
By Hana Yoo / January 6, 2006
Friday, January 6 Kangeiko/Kuviasungnerk begins in earnest on Monday, but before the onslaught of early-morning calisthenics, you can take advantage of free skate rental, hot chocolate, snacks, and Polaroids tonight by attending Skate Night at the Midway. Enjoy the unseasonably, unreasonably warm weather while it lasts. Let’s hope the ice doesn’t melt. (8 p.m. to 11 p.m., free, Midway Skating Rink) Aspiring professors, take note: Elizabeth Chandler speaks on “How to Prepare an Effective Syllabus” in BSLC 205 this afternoon. Even if grad school’s not part of your game plan, you might pick up some useful tips to pass along...
Go tell it on the Mountain: Lee’s love story haunts
By Ilana Emmett / November 29, 2005
With the first shot of Ang Lee’s Brokeback Mountain and its first simple, haunting twang of a guitar, one quietly enters the world of Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist. Ennis (Heath Ledger), a ranch hand, and Jack (Jake Gyllenhaal), a rodeo cowboy, meet when they both take up jobs as sheepherders for the summer. Despite Ennis’s timidity, the two become close and their relationship quickly blossoms into love. The film relates their 20-year love affair. Despite being characterized as a “gay cowboy film,” Brokeback Mountain—based on Annie Proulx’s 1997 short story—is simply a love story about two people fighting...
Debate collection preserves eternal conflict between Jewish holiday foods
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / November 29, 2005
It goes without saying that the University of Chicago has something of a reputation in the academic world for doing things, well, a bit differently than other schools. The University experience begins with the Uncommon Application, then proceeds through a tour de force of madcap antics such as Scav Hunt and the Polar Bear Run. If one is very lucky, it also includes the fabled Latke-Hamantash Debate, which takes place each Tuesday before Thanksgiving in Mandel Hall—and, as a matter of pride, almost never comes to a conclusion about which food is superior. The debate began in 1946 as a...
4.48 Psychosis taps personal yet universal demons
By Stephanie Mielcarek / November 29, 2005
“Intense.” This is the first phrase that comes to mind when trying to describe 4.48 Psychosis. The word, mind you, does nothing to actually illuminate the play, but it does roll off the tongue easily enough—easier, at least, than trying to break down the complex series of emotions, spaces, and states of mind this play hurtles its audience through. Playwright Sarah Kane created 4.48 Psychosis as pure text, without stage directions, character descriptions, or even clear indications of who is speaking at any given point. Lines are sparse, and often rely on repetition for their meaning or force to sink...
Innovators of advertising come out for 84th Annual Art Directors Awards
By Jenny Fisher / November 29, 2005
I hope I’m not the only one who falls for the public service announcement at the movie theater every time. I’ll be watching the previews, and think, “Oh wow! I really want to see that movie about Japanese warriors fighting over a beautiful pond.” In my defense, it is a gorgeous scene. Then I hear a cell phone ring. I’ve definitely turned around, looking for the culprit, on more than one occasion. I feel like such a sucker for turning around, and worse yet, for reaching into my pocket to do as I’m told. Visiting an exhibition of works honored...
Bohemia lives in Columbus’s shockingly strong Rent
By Matt Zakosek / November 29, 2005
Why would anyone—even the director of Home Alone and the first two Harry Potter movies—open Rent with the song “Seasons of Love”? In the musical, “Seasons of Love” opens Act Two, and for good reason. Easily the most maudlin number in the entire production, one almost needs the buffer of an intermission to believe it’s part of the show. When Chris Columbus’s film version of Rent began with “Seasons of Love,” I was appalled. My jaw hit the floor when Mark (Anthony Rapp) spoke his first few lines, because hardly anything is spoken at all in the musical. Even the...
Transamerica squanders potential on misplaced jokes
By John Frame / November 29, 2005
I desperately wanted to like Transamerica, a highlight of Reeling 2005: The 24th Chicago Lesbian and Gay International Film Festival, which opens in New York and L.A. on December 2. But after spending a substantial amount of time thinking about it (I saw it over a month ago), I realized how hollow the story was, and exactly why I didn’t sympathize with Bree (Felicity Huffman), the main character. I was recently informed that one does not actually need to have had a sex-change operation to be considered transsexual. Indeed, as a recent visitor to my Biology of Gender course informed...
This Google Story is fun but far from definitive
By Joe Katz / November 29, 2005
It’s everywhere. It’s a research tool, it’s a shopping service, it’s a library, it’s the best way to check the cred of the hottie who just asked you out. It’s even a verb. How did we live life before Google? How is it possible that it’s only been around for seven years? More importantly, who are these guys who are getting us all this info, and what’s in it for them? In The Google Story, David A. Vise and Mark Malseed attempt to answer at the least the last question. Using their apparently unprecedented access to the company, they trace...
Leonard’s A Life in Jazz photographs combine carcinogens and sax appeal
By Oliver Mosier / November 29, 2005
Cool—a word synonymous with jazz—seizes the beat of a generation, the rhythm of a culture. The music resonates even in two dimensions of black and white. Herman Leonard shot what he saw. His photographs captured moments which words could never do justice to. We see Miles; we see Bird and Diz. Don’t forget Ella, Monk, The Duke, and, of course, The Chairman of the Board. These are not simple portraits, but rather windows into incomparable geniuses. The Catherine Edelman Gallery is showcasing the photography of Herman Leonard in the exhibition A Life With Jazz. The camera was his instrument, and...
Green Day bitesthe Bullet, that ison live disc set
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 22, 2005
While listening and watching Bullet in a Bible, Green Day’s first live album and DVD, I immediately became aware of the contradictions inherent in Green Day’s position in American pop music. While they are certainly devoted to punk in all its history and glory, they have taken a specific style of punk, repeated with various permutations the same format for the past 16 years: the three-chord repetition that gives metal and prog-rock snobs the fuel for their hatred of the genre. With American Idiot, however, they grew out of the teenage slacker sphere of influence they had exhausted with their...
Live album recorded in Chicago emphasizes gritty, intense side of Wilco
By Jenna Telesca / November 22, 2005
Excitement about a new album is a feeling I haven’t felt for a while. When I found myself clutching Wilco’s new live album encased in plastic, however, I got the familiar rush. I had that thrilling feeling that this was going to be good. I wasn’t disappointed. The cover of Wilco’s new live album depicts frontman Jeff Tweedy simply standing in front of a microphone and playing guitar. His head and everything around him is abstracted by the shining overhead lights of a stage. The cover art is very much like the album itself. It’s the same old Wilco, now...
Eat Your Heart Out – November 22, 2005
By Lauren Shockey / November 22, 2005
Vinaigrettes are one of the simplest and most versatile sauces you can make. Most commonly used on salads, vinaigrettes are also good accompaniments for fish or grilled vegetables. As the name indicates (vin aigre, or “acidic wine” in French), a vinaigrette is an oil-and-vinegar sauce. Olive oil, red wine vinegar, salt, and pepper compose a classic vinaigrette. However, lemon juice may be substituted at times for the vinegar since the two have a similar acidity level. Personally, I like a classic Dijon vinaigrette for salads in which Dijon mustard is added as an emulsifier—though once you master the classic, the...
Couture du Jour – November 22, 2005
By Sarah Cohan / November 22, 2005
The University of Chicago held a revolutionary event in Hutch Commons last Friday, November 18. It started at 7 p.m., when the doors opened and people literally poured in to find high-end shopping in Hyde Park. The Chicago Trunk Show, produced by Moda, invited Chicago designers and boutiques from both on and off campus. The evening was a complete success, with an estimated crowd of over 200 visitors. MODA, described as “the University of Chicago’s premiere fashion organization,” had planned this event for months, calling local Chicago designers, boutiques, make-up artists, and salons in order to bring this level of...
Harding and Vogt disappoint with passionless renditions of classics
By Malkah Bressler / November 22, 2005
During this age—in which the production of and interest in new classical music is incomparable to that which occurred more than 100 years ago—the trend has evolved so that it is no more the sound of new notes that strike the audience’s ears, but rather, how old classics are rendered. Thus, the reason why we go to concerts: We want to see the new and the young and the already well-established geniuses interpret and render these timeless and beautiful masterpieces. On Thursday, November 10, the CSO offered a double-header in terms of rising stars. Daniel Harding, an increasingly celebrated conductor,...
System of a Down’s latest politically charged CD fails to Hypnotize
By Emale Gray / November 22, 2005
Remember “I-E-A-I-A-I-O”? Yeah, I still don’t know what that means, either, but it was one fun song. And that hasn’t been System of a Down’s only hit. “Chop Suey,” “Toxicity,” and “Aerials” also make SOAD’s Hall of Fame. After three albums of greatness and a year-and-a-half’s break, they’ve produced their most politically opinionated album yet: -Hypnotize. With its oblique analogies and arbitrary melodies, Hypnotize’s predecessor, Mesmerize, set out to guide fans to SOAD’s truth: everything isn’t what it seems in this deceptive world. For example, “B.Y.O.B.” implied that political figureheads are treating war like a party and “bringing their own...
Four Weddings director Mike Newell conjures best Potter picture yet
By Matt Johnston / November 22, 2005
The makers of the Harry Potter films have the unenviable task of passing cinematic muster while simultaneously including every single detail from the books, so as to avoid outrage from the fanatic readers in the audience. The balancing act does not create good movies. Even the third cinematic installment, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban—which drew good reviews from critics and fans alike—felt packed to the brim with unnecessary snippets from the book by J.K. Rowling. There were twists and turns that relied on an understanding of the source material. Further, Prisoner was not visually satisfying. Remember that werewolf...
Phoenix and Witherspoon turn in fiery performances in Mangold’s Walk the Line
By Charles Lyford / November 22, 2005
As they say in the operating room, first things first: There are musical and geographical facts which cast their shadow—or brilliant light, if you prefer—over my opinion of Walk the Line. Fact number one is that I am a big-time Johnny Cash fan. I bought my first CD when I was in 10th grade, and I’ve never since grown tired of hearing his songs and that deep, mean, pious voice. Fact number two, which predates and reinforces fact number one, is that I am from Arkansas. Wal-Mart, Al Green, and, of course, Johnny, all get me excited, and I’ve been...
Madonna’s Confession: My new album could be so much more
By Matt Zakosek / November 22, 2005
People will dance to anything with Madonna’s name slapped on it. And by “people,” I mean “gay men.” This is the woman who changed the face of commercial radio. She reintroduced show tunes to the Top 40 with “Don’t Cry for Me Argentina”; made us all dance along to a song about a woman considering an abortion; and inspired countless choruses of “Mommy, what’s a virgin?” I’ve heard dance remixes of songs such as “Mother and Father,” with the lyrics, “My mother died when I was five/ And all I did was cry and cry.” (Now, doesn’t that make you...
Obscure Brits Art Brut put the charm on Chicago crowd
By Irene Gallego / November 18, 2005
The first thing Eddie Argos—frontman of Art Brut—did upon stepping onto the tiny stage at Schubas this past Tuesday was take off his shoes. The second thing he did was launch into a frenzied version of “Formed A Band,” which is very much indeed about forming a band (it begins with “Formed a band, we formed a band, look at us, we formed a band”). The third thing he did, after the song, was to ask the audience if they had any questions to ask the band. When the first query turned out to be, “Will you play the rest...
Idol’s Carrie Underwood won’t let country clichés keep her down
By Emale Gray / November 18, 2005
American Idol-—the reality show to end all reality shows. It started out as just another Americanized show lifted from England, but with its complex cast of judges (pleasantly outdated Paula Abdul, famed producer Randy Jackson, and offensively blunt Simon Cowell) and gifted contestants, this little program has escalated to become so much more. Over its three previous seasons, the show has pumped out three talented singers, only one of whom actually has a rising career—Kelly Clarkson. However, season four produced one diva that may just put Clarkson’s reign to an end—Carrie Underwood. Whenever one thinks of country music, the impression...
Derailed stays on course with help from Owen, Aniston
By Erin Luboff / November 18, 2005
The movie-going public faces a dilemma upon the release of any film that is based on a novel: to read the book first or not? In the case of Derailed, based on the novel by James Siegel—and perhaps in the case of any film that claims to be a thriller—it would be wise not to read the book first. This film, the Weinsteins’ first post-Miramax release, is entertaining and fast paced, if slightly uneven, and it is a ride that you may be more willing to go along with if you do not know where it is going. We take...
University Theater’s Stop Kiss gives the kiss-off to sexual violence
By Will Fulton / November 18, 2005
It’s often all too easy to forget some of the harsher realities of the world we live in. As a socially liberal intellectual—generally surrounding myself with like-minded people at one of the greatest bastions of academia while living the so-called “life of the mind”—it takes a truly jarring experience to remind me of how much hate and violence there is out there in the world at large. Diana Son’s Stop Kiss, put on at University Theater this week, is one such experience. It is the story of two women who meet by chance and, although ostensibly straight, are irresistibly drawn...
Ben Folds creates unstable dynamic with Baltimore Symphony Orchestra
By Isaac Wolf / November 18, 2005
Remember the saying that you can have too much of a good thing? It’s true. Well, at least sometimes. Flanked by the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra last Thursday night (November 10), Ben Folds—the pianist famous in equal parts for his mellifluence and melancholy—performed as crisply as ever. But with an entire orchestra huddled around him, Folds struggled to keep his overpowering presence in check, often drowning out the orchestra and rendering the professional musicians useless. During “Zak and Sara,” Folds coiled over his piano in classic Ben Folds fashion. He kicked aside the sitting stool and thrashed down on the keys...
Get a Life – November 18, 2005
By Claire Mazur / November 18, 2005
When I was a junior in high school, my biggest passion was Danny Meier. He was a senior and varsity soccer player, and I was a manager for the team. On days when he didn’t have practice or a game, he’d drive me back to my house, and we’d make out on my living room couch before my parents got home from work. Sunday evening I attended the Chicago Youth Symphony Orchestra (CYSO) fall concert at Orchestra Hall. The one thing that kept running through my brain—while watching this stage of high-school students producing music at such a strikingly professional...
Voices STD – November 18, 2005
By Hana Yoo / November 18, 2005
Friday / November 18 The Checkerboard Lounge reopens in Hyde Park today. Go check it out (after the private ceremony earlier in the evening, of course). (9:30 p.m.–2 a.m., $15, 21+, 5201 South Harper Avenue) If you’re at least 21 and looking for love, free dating website Datinground.com is throwing a party at Cleary’s on Clark, with complimentary hors d’oeuvres and all-you-can-drink cocktails. (8–10 p.m., $20 at the door, 3438 North Clark Street) As usual, the Experimental Film Club offers up an interesting-sounding screening at the Film Studies Center in Cobb 307. Magic Lantern presents The Comedy Show, Part One...
HBO builds a television empire with epic, honest Rome
By Oliver Mosier / November 18, 2005
“Hail Caesar!” After years of unrest, this cry marked a people yearning for stability. Centuries have passed since the inception of the Roman Republic, and the Republic’s death is imminent. Gaius Julius Caesar possesses an army of unbelievable skill and loyalty, resulting from eight long years spent fighting in Gaul. Tyranny is on the horizon. This is the subject of the new joint venture between HBO and the BBC. The series, Rome, focuses on the major players during the civil war and the fall of the Republic. Bruno Heller, the creator of the show, takes liberties necessary to facilitate a...
New Pride & Prejudice just a little Austen-tatious
By Azure Gilman / November 15, 2005
Let me preface this article by admitting the awful truth: I am a Pride & Prejudice-loving, Colin Firth-worshipping, total Jane Austen geek. If you’re one of those people who hate Jane Austen, and ridicule the silly girls who love Pride & Prejudice, stop reading now. This article is not for you. It’s impossible to talk about this new movie without first at least mentioning what has come before—notably, the six-part BBC miniseries. Even the most pop culture–inept person would have found it hard to miss the Colin Firth fever that almost swept both sides of the Atlantic from Bridget Jones’s...
Standardized samples, lack of hooks spoil Purple City’s trip to France
By Seth Mayer / November 15, 2005
France in the popular imagination of America serves as a kind of foil. It plays the snob to our average Joe, stands for frivolity in contrast to our more pragmatic approach, and comes off as our less aggressive, sometimes uncooperative, interlocutor on the stage of world politics. Paris to Purple City, a concept album from Harlem rap group Purple City, presents itself as a challenge to this version of the French, joining Purple City with eight French MCs for a 10-track CD of mainstream hip hop in two languages. If this seems like an interesting or ridiculous idea to you,...
LucasArts delivers in full Force with Battlefront II
By Brian White / November 15, 2005
Do you remember Dark Forces? That awesome Star Wars game that everyone had the demo disk for back in 1998? That game was awesome. It had straightforward action with a plot that was compelling, but didn’t overly interfere with gameplay. That was one of the first really good LucasArts games. Unfortunately, it was also one of the last. From the mediocre Jedi Outcast to the totally unplayable Force Commander, LucasArts seemed to think that it could release half-baked games that would sell simply from the sheer force of the Star Wars label (no pun intended). But in the past year...
Eat Your Heart Out – November 15, 2005
By Lauren Shockey / November 15, 2005
Sex and food. These are two things that go particularly well together, a pair that has been entwined throughout history. Aphrodisiacs were sought as remedies for various sexual anxieties, including fears of inadequate performance and the need to increase fertility and potency. Of course, there are certain foods whose physical properties resemble sexual organs (figs, oysters, asparagus, carrots), leading them to be recorded as aphrodisiacs. Yet there are other foods labeled aphrodisiacs that were deemed such for their chemical properties, of which the most well known is chocolate. Called the “nourishment of the gods” by the Aztecs, chocolate contains the...
Couture du Jour – November 15, 2005
By Sarah Cohan / November 15, 2005
The opening day of Stella McCartney’s new line at H&M was stellar, to say the least. Her campaign, notorious for exposing Kate Moss’s cocaine addiction, finally hit stores this last Thursday. H&M’s Michigan Avenue location opened its doors at 10 a.m. to a line that continued all the way around the block. Tape was used to control the crowds, who were waiting impatiently to get their hands on McCartney’s new designs. I didn’t get into the store until noon, and by that time half of her line was already gone. Inside the store, it was complete mayhem; the changing room...
Jean-Pierre Aimard displays virtuosity, superiority to Beck
By Nicholas Morrison / November 15, 2005
Here is a prediction: Beck’s music will not age well. Why? And what does this have to do with Pierre-Laurent Aimard’s excellent piano recital last Sunday? Beck works by ironically sampling the musical idioms of his age and blending them with his own breed of folk. Sea Change is orchestral folk. Odelay is folk-rap. Midnite Vultures is disco-folk. And within songs themselves, he often “quotes” styles well outside of the ones in which the song primarily works, like the banjo passage that appears out of nowhere in the Prince-style “Sexx Laws,” only to vanish again moments later. This kind of...
Jarhead puts up a good fight but falls short of victory
By John Frame / November 11, 2005
A tense moment involving Private Anthony “Swoff” (the underappreciated Jake Gyllenhaal), a fellow soldier, a rifle, and a plea for death occurs in the middle of Jarhead, director Sam Mendes’s gritty new film. The moment is rigid, a desperate attempt to slice through the thickness of the mundane world of the Marines that the film so devotedly depicts. We are informed that a “jarhead” not only refers to the shape of a Marine’s head after his hair is cut, but also a reference to his head as an “empty vessel.” The film is so faithful to the manifestation of the...
MCA’s Tropicália exhibit shows that the revolution will be installed
By Jenny Fisher / November 11, 2005
It gets dark before five. If you haven’t already broken out your winter coat, it’s becoming increasingly obvious that you’re going to have to give in soon. Worst of all, midterms are upon us. Wouldn’t it be nice to take off your shoes and go for a walk on warm sand? Look no further than the Museum of Contemporary Art. Until January 8, 2006, the MCA is displaying Tropicália: A Revolution in Brazilian Culture. This exhibit contains work from a modernist art movement called Tropicália, which lasted from 1967 to 1972, as well as work by many contemporary artists who...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – November 11, 2005
By Hana Yoo / November 11, 2005
Friday / November 11 Enjoy music, art, and free food tonight at SMAC’s Smart Soundscapes, featuring Unled Tit, Modern Temper, the Passerines, and the Goddamn Shame in the Smart Museum lobby. The Alison Wendlandt Quartet, Voices in Your Head, Ariana Barr, and Christian Ohanian perform in the galleries. (6 to 9 p.m., free, 5550 South Greenwood Avenue) The “India: Implementing Pluralism and Democracy” conference, which runs through Sunday, kicks off today at the Law School. Nobel laureate and Harvard professor Amartya Sen gives the keynote address at 5 p.m. in the Glen A. Lloyd Auditorium. See ccc.uchicago.edu/events/index.html for a full...
Get A Life – November 11, 2005
By Claire Mazur / November 11, 2005
My suspicion is that the reason this smoking ban has taken so long to get passed may have something to do with the gorgeous Chicago weather. As much as people want to see smoking decrease, nobody’s sure if it’s quite fair to punish smokers by forcing them to endure frostbite-inducing temperatures just to get the job done. Luckily, there’s at least one well heated place where you’ll be able to puff away regardless of whether the City Council gets its way. It may not be as close as everyone’s favorite (if hazardous) Woodlawn Tap, but it does have a fully...
Kahane leads St. Paul Chamber Orchestra toward more perfect union
By Joe Riina-Ferrie / November 11, 2005
The St. Paul Chamber Orchestra put on a powerful performance before a nearly full Mandel Hall last Friday. Under Jeffrey Kahane’s artful conduction, the smaller ensemble—who took the stage first—played with the power of a full symphony orchestra. The monumental classicism of Haydn’s Symphony No. 99 in E flat and Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 23 in A were offset well by the contemporary Orphée-Sérénade of William Bolcom, creating a diverse and engaging program. Overall, it was a night of solid musicianship, with Kahane proving himself equally talented as a piano soloist and as a conductor. It was an excellent choice...
North Ashland Avenue holds a trove of taquerías: La Pasadita times three
By Morris Steinberg / November 11, 2005
Stand in the doorway of La Pasadita at 1140 North Ashland Avenue, and you will see across the street at 1141 North Ashland a restaurant called La Pasadita. Turn your head to the right, and a few doors down you will see at 1132 North Ashland Avenue a restaurant called La Pasadita. Yes, near the intersection of Division and Ashland, the same restaurant appears three times on a single block. Attribute this to the simple fact that this diminutive dynasty serves the best tacos in the city of Chicago (and by simple deduction, the world). Some claim that the 1140...
Xiu Xiu’s aural assault intensifies Ida Noyes
By Paul Mantz / November 8, 2005
I’ll be honest; when I heard Xiu Xiu was going to be coming to campus, I had two reactions. The first was, “Yay! I get to see Xiu Xiu!” The other was, “Oh God, I hope this doesn’t suck really bad.” I was thoroughly confused as to why they’d make another trip to Chicago, considering that it would be their fourth show here in the past year. I guess since they came down once more, either Xiu Xiu or their booking agent really likes Chicago, and if it was the latter, they may just be burnt out on the city....
Lyric Opera’s La Cenerentola makes a fun but flawed Cinderella story
By Manasi Vydyanath / November 8, 2005
The curtains went down this Friday upon the Lyric Opera’s last performance of Rossini’s La Cenerentola this season, to an enthusiastic but slightly uncertain audience. Their hesitancy was well occasioned, for while certain aspects of the production were absolutely brilliant, the crucial character of the eponymous protagonist left much to be desired. Vesselina Kasarova played the title role, and, without exception, her tone erred on the side of the overwrought. She had a full, warm voice that lifted Cinderella’s character from the traditional morass of fragility and vulnerability, imbuing her with equal measures of conviction and calculation. Kasarova’s Cinderella was...
Eat Your Heart Out – November 8, 2005
By Lauren Shockey / November 8, 2005
“Shoo fly pie and apple pan dowdy,” croons Dinah Shore in the song of the same name. “Makes your eyes light up, your tummy say, ‘Howdy.’” As I was listening to this song last week, I came to the realization that I did not actually know what an apple pan dowdy was. I knew that it was a dessert made of some combination of apples and pastry, but I didn’t really know what made it different from an apple crisp or an apple cobbler. Then I got to thinking, what makes a crisp different than a crumble? How do you...
Rocky trip across the Atlantic for NBC’s The Office
By Oliver Mosier / November 8, 2005
It just doesn’t work. That is the phrase most would use to describe NBC’s The Office. The show is based on the successful British mockumentary series of the same name. Apparently in the journey across the pond, the humor of the original show was left somewhere in the Atlantic. Transferring television programs from one country to another is a risky business. Just imagine an American or French version of Monty Python. I wouldn’t want to live in a world that would tolerate such comic sacrilege. Most remakes attempt to capture the brilliance of the first show, but usually end up...
Turow trades Grisham for grunt territory with Ordinary Heroes
By Joe Katz / November 8, 2005
It’s been two years since the literary world last heard from the popular, critically acclaimed crime fiction writer Scott Turow, and his new release, Ordinary Heroes, has been eagerly anticipated. Fortunately, it proved worth the wait. Long-time fans of Turow are likely to be thrown by the book-jacket description of his latest novel. At first glance, Ordinary Heroes is quite different from his earlier fiction. It leaves the courtrooms and streets of his fictional Kindle County for battle-scarred Europe during the final months of WWII. Nominally, the book tells the tale of Stewart Dubinsky, a retired reporter who discovers that...
Couture du Jour – November 8, 2005
By Sarah Cohan / November 8, 2005
The cute, warm, and affordable coat: It sounds like a dream. This “dream” coat is not easy to find, especially living in a city where the inhabitants have to deal with cold, wind, and multiple forms of precipitation. During the spell of warm weather last weekend, I searched for the ultimate winter coat, keeping in mind the following criteria: cost, overall cuteness (I don’t want any marshmallow coats in my closet), and warmth. I found many candidates, but only a few met the requirements of all three categories. I started this daunting task at H&M, assuming I was bound to...
Chicago debut of masterful duo evokes nymphs and nightmares
By Manasi Vydyanath / November 4, 2005
It was a concert of brilliant combinations and one uncalled-for interjection—a subtle oration with a hastily added anecdote. The pre-announced, original program was refreshing in its consistency; it made no attempt at combining modernity with antiquity for the sake of comforting temporal symmetry. However, the actual program notes of the evening contained two selections from Ravel’s Miroirs in addition to the pre-announced pieces. While impeccably played, they were consummately intrusive, especially since they were inserted between the excoriating Berio and the operatic Ligeti. They were beautiful works that simply didn’t fit, and thus were unfortunately rendered less lovely in context....
Nevermind buying insightful but unspectacular Nirvana retrospective
By Loretta Nuccio / November 4, 2005
“Underground” does not even begin to describe the tracks on Nirvana’s latest release, Sliver: The Best of the Box. Neither does “gritty,” but those are the two words that I am going to start with. The CD is a collection of demos, live recordings, and rare acoustic performances. Underground, indeed: Three of the 22 tracks are previously unreleased. Also, some of the demos are labeled as “home” demos and other songs as “boom-box” versions. I think the names are pretty self-explanatory. This is where gritty comes in. On the first track, a 1985 demo of “Spank Thru,” lead singer Kurt...
HBO celebrates Life and comedy gold of controversy magnet George Carlin
By Oliver Mosier / November 4, 2005
“S#%!, P!$$, F#%!, C#$%, C@#%-S#@&?!%, M#&%@!-F#%!@!, and T!&#$.” Seven words you can’t say on television. Well, in 1973, despite FCC regulations, maverick comedian George Carlin said them—and he hasn’t stopped spewing words since. This course of action eventually helped redefine what was considered suitable speech for broadcast across national airwaves, and shaped Carlin’s singular identity as both rebel and a magnet for controversy. This Saturday, the audience at New York’s prestigious Beacon Theatre will witness more than their fair share of profanity. But vulgarity for vulgarity’s sake was never Carlin’s aim. It was just a rebel’s shot at the hypocritical...
Two Reeling films address social intolerance through individual portraits
By Emerald Gao / November 4, 2005
Reeling: 10 days, 67 programs. While it would be impossible to watch and review each and every film, it is certainly easy to preview some of the most interesting, entertaining, and thought-provoking selections offered by the festival. High on that list would have to be the Women’’s Centerpiece, to be screened at 7 p.m. on Monday, November 7 at Columbia College’s Film Row Cinema. This year, it is Unveiled, a German film about one woman’’s struggle against the constrictions of gender and cultural identity. Fleeing her native Iran after being found out as a lesbian, Fariba Tabrizi lands in Germany,...
Sloppy Long Day’s Journey makes an ordeal of O’Neill
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 4, 2005
Walking into the Gunder Mansion at the North Lakeside Cultural Center is like entering the year 1910. The location feels like the summer house of an upper-middle class family from a century ago, which lends itself perfectly to Collage Productions’ performance of Eugene O’Neill’s Long Day’s Journey into Night. In fact, it lends itself too perfectly: The production seems so realistic that it’s unsettling to sit through. This is not your typical setting for a play—setting a play in a beach house where the actors often stand with their backs to the audience is, shall we say, a tad ambitious....
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – November 4, 2005
By Hana Yoo / November 4, 2005
Friday / November 4 A more sobering Día de los Muertos event, focusing on violence against women in the U.S. and Mexican Latino communities, takes place in Hutch Commons. A ceremonial dance group called Nahualli performs, followed by talks by Lu Rocha and Marala Goode, representatives from domestic violence organizations in Juarez and Chicago, respectively. Mexican dinner is provided. (6 to 9 p.m., free, Hutchinson Commons) The Hive, SGFC, and WHPK present a show featuring acts Xiu Xiu, Evan Saathoff, and Superargo. (9 p.m., $3, Ida Noyes Hall) If experimental theater is more your thing, don’t miss the second night...
Get A Life – November 4, 2005
By Claire Mazur / November 4, 2005
My roommate and I embarrassed ourselves last weekend. These things happen. I won’t get into the details, but it was bad enough that, come Monday, we needed to find a place off-campus to study. We weren’t interested in running into anyone wanting to relive the details of our idiocy, so we set out to get as far away as possible to ensure a calm and peaceful environment in which to do our work. Thus we found ourselves in the zen environment of the Argo Tea Café, sipping on relaxing blends with names like “Darjeeling Champagne” and “Earl Grey Crème.” We...
Wainwright banters his way through intimate set
By Irene Gallego / November 1, 2005
The first of this year’s MAB-run concerts saw Rufus Wainwright grace Mandel Hall on October 28. While previous shows, like last year’s Summer Breeze, have featured an odd mixture of performers, Friday’s bill was surprisingly cohesive and balanced. Support came in the form of the somewhat enigmatic M. Ward, an Oregon-based singer-songwriter who is highly reminiscent of Bob Dylan when playing his guitar and harmonica, and who actually sounds like Wainwright (as well as his father, Loudon Wainwright III) when sitting at the piano. His set, while unarguably good as shown by the impressive wordless guitar melody that was the...
Reeling begin 24th year with strong lineup of gay sports films
By Emerald Gao / November 1, 2005
For the past 23 years, Reeling: The Chicago Lesbian and Gay International Film Festival— has consistently proved that queer film isn’t just for Gender Studies majors. With its 24th season kicking off on Thursday, November 3, the second-oldest lesbian and gay film festival in the world, starts its week-long run with two films that address the issue of gay athletes. The opening night feature is Summer Storm (Sommersturm), an astonishing German film about Tobi, a high school rower who has long harbored feelings for Achim, his best friend and fellow rower. Unfortunately, Achim is in a serious relationship with a...
UT offers Big Bang with experimental ensemble
By Rebecca Phillips / November 1, 2005
Taking on the task of reproducing both the far-away inception of the universe and the immediate creation of a piece of theater, this week’s Univeristy Theater productions of The Matchstick Theory and Valse are two exercises in experimentation. The shows, which are about an hour in length all together, are two original creations that should not be missed. Valse, directed by third-year Angeline Gragasin, is a 20-minute piece incorporating music, dance, ritual, formal pantomime, and European clown tradition as her ensemble of eight performers (Samantha Cook, Evan Chung, Elizabeth Godfrey, John Frame, John Lago, Matthew Landback, Vanessa Tantillo, and Katie...
Weekend workshops: Three’s a charm
By Rebecca Phillips / November 1, 2005
University Theater’s “workshop” productions, which have minimal technical requirements and rehearse only 15 times before opening night, are meant to give directors and actors the opportunity to isolate the most basic elements of a dramatic piece such as character, staging, and timing in a low-pressure forum. For first-time directors or seasoned actors who want to test their limits, the workshop is ideal. Last weekend I went to see the three plays performed in the First Floor Theater of the Reynolds Club—True West, The Brute, and The Public Eye. I was pleased at times and uncomfortable at others, but on the...
Eat Your Heart Out – November 1, 2005
By Lauren Shockey / November 1, 2005
“I’d love to come,” a friend said earlier in the year when I invited him over for dinner. Then he added, “There’s just one thingI’m a vegan now.” I paused, at a loss of words. An unsympathetic “oh” was all I could muster. Not that I should not have been surprised. It seems that everyone has a food peculiarity these days, whether it is not eating red meat, avoiding shellfish, shunning dairy, and so on. A Time/CNN Harris Interactive poll from 2002 found that 4 percent of Americans consider themselves to be vegetarians and 0.2 percent of Americans consider themselves...
Couture du Jour – November 1, 2005
By Sarah Cohan / November 1, 2005
Halloween is a time for young trick-or-treaters to go out and get some good candy for free by having fun and dressing up in costume. At the U of C, we have not forgotten this time-honored tradition, and this year many students put their creativity to work for the entire Halloween weekend. On Friday night at a party in the Shoreland, the usual angels, devils, and vampires could be seen, but a few unusual costumes popped up as well. A businessman with no pants—complete with watermark pens in his pocket—showed up with a sweet transvestite who was from Transsexual, Transylvania....
Citizen Kane of video games somehow falls short
By Brian White / November 1, 2005
I feel guilty reviewing Civilization IV. The Civilization series is one of the oldest and most popular strategy games and is as close as you can get to a true classic in the world of video games. Reviewing Civilization IV is like reviewing some sort of crazy Casablanca IV. Criticizing Sid Meier’s Civilization is like criticizing Orson Welles for Citizen Kane; you just can’t do it. That said, save your $49.99. I received the game on Thursday in the mail. Giddy as a schoolgirl, I opened the package and stuck the “Install” disc into my drive (note the quotations—more on...
Creatures of the night should embrace Rocky Horror
By Matt Johnston / November 1, 2005
The movie Deep Throat is seared into our collective cultural memory, not just because many people saw it—people had watched pornography before its release—but because people saw it so publicly and so audaciously. It was far from being the first or the best porno, but it is the most infamous, having been released in that delicate moment between the anonymous experience of sneaking into a back alley theater with collar upturned and the infinitely more anonymous experience of staring at a computer screen well into the wee hours of the morning. The history of pornography serves as an apt parallel...
Extraordinary Apple fulfills promise on third album
By Emale Gray / October 7, 2005
Nearly six years have passed since Fiona Apple dropped her album When the Pawn… and nine since her first hit—“Criminal”—was released on her debut album, Tidal. After all her success, Apple took a break and wrote songs at her leisure, since she felt she had already poured her heart out in her previous albums. She soon met up with producer Jon Brion, and they discussed making a new album. One thing led to another, and Apple was in the studio again, recording a rough draft of Extraordinary Machine. However, the “finished product” left her feeling unfulfilled. After meeting with Apple,...
SNL hits creative nadir with follow-up Ashlee Simpson “performance”
By Oliver Mosier / October 7, 2005
“Hi, my name is Lorne Michaels, and Saturday Night Live is not funny.” “Hi, Lorne,” says the group in unison. “This is the first step…one day at a time,” yells someone from the back. This is my idea for what might help the atrocious product that NBC puts on display every Saturday night. A support group where writers and producers can come to terms with the comic trash they continue to produce. That would be in a perfect world, but this is a world in which SNL no longer deserves pity laughs. I believe that the genesis of comedic drivel...
Role-playing games offer alternative to sleeping, eating
By Daniel Holder / October 7, 2005
Last weekend, I called my nephew and asked what he was doing. “Well, I’m killing things, selling things, and talking about things,” he told me. At first, the response startled to me—but when I visited his house later that day, I realized he wasn’t joking. He was, in fact, killing, trading, and talking. He was performing these actions in a parallel digital universe—the universe of a Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game (MMORPG). Like him, millions of people are interacting every day through MMORPGs. (World of Warcraft, the most successful MMORPG, has 1.5 millions users to date.) These people get...
Stuff to Do (STD) – October 7, 2005
By Hana Yoo / October 7, 2005
Friday / October 7 We’ve all been through orientation (and disorientation) at the U of C; today, experience another twist on the word with REorientation. Chicago Weekly hosts the event, featuring music by Bang! Bang!, Small Change, and Michael Columbia; art showcases from Midway Studios; film screenings by Fire Escape Films; and free food from Hyde Park restaurants such as the Snail, the Nile, Orly’s, and Rajun Cajun. You might also get your hands on giveaways from the Art Institute, the MCA, and Newcity. (6:30–9:30 p.m., free, Hutch Commons) If you liked Hero or Kung Fu Hustle, you might want...
Get a Life – October 7, 2005
By Claire Mazur / October 7, 2005
I spent 95 percent of my first year here contained within an area of about one square mile—and that’s being generous with the measurements. I lived in Max East, ate at Bartlett, learned in Cobb, studied in the Reg, worked out at Henry Crown, and escaped from dorm life at 57th and Kimbark, where my then-boyfriend lived in a dirty apartment. This was a sincerely depressing existence to say the least, and not just because my boyfriend and I were a wildly mismatched pair. I spent the following summer whining to a therapist, breaking up with my boyfriend, and convincing...
Franz Ferdinand offer listeners something Better
By Irene Gallego / October 4, 2005
True to the art-rock label they have so indisputably earned over the past two years, Scottish quartet Franz Ferdinand said in interviews earlier this year that they had plans to release their second album under the title of Franz Ferdinand, keeping even the same sleeve design from their previous record. Then one of them suggested You Could Have It So Much Better (with Franz Ferdinand, it goes without saying), and the name stuck. This is a clever decision on behalf of the band, and not only because it does away with that pesky “how to tell the albums apart” problem....
Jazz legends Coltrane and Monk exchange lively dialogue at Carnegie Hall
By Eric Benson / October 4, 2005
Jazz, like all art forms that become institutionalized, is always at risk of being engulfed by its own history. I know people who consider themselves jazz fans, but whose knowledge of the music abruptly stops around 1965. This phenomenon is not caused by any disdain for the current scene, but rather is a reflection of the dominant attitude toward the music, which places far more weight on figures past than it does on the vibrant present. Many record companies support the relatively meager sales of their current jazz artists by reissuing and repackaging previously released material from an early era....
Choreographed chaos, vertigo on display at Renaissance Society
By Ilana Tabby / October 4, 2005
Gracefully perched atop high-stress Cobb Hall, the Renaissance Society is now hosting an exhibit worthy of any humanities course’s astute analysis. An interdisciplinary collaboration by German sculptor Peter Welz and world-renowned American choreographer William Forsythe, whenever on on on nohow on is a commanding installation piece which addresses multiple facets of the audience’s perception. The main exhibit consists of five large video screens, arranged in the shape of an “E,” on which footage of Forsythe dancing from five different angles is projected. The cameras recorded Forsythe from the front of the room, from overhead, from the side (rotated 90°), and...
Viggo Mortensen’s small-town life is shattered by Violence
By John Frame / October 4, 2005
Warning: This review contains spoilers. Read at your own risk. In an early scene of David Cronenberg’s A History of Violence, an exchange takes place between a news reporter and Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen). The topic of conversation: An incident that ended with two robbers dead and unleashed Tom’s, well, history of violence. “Were you surprised at your own reaction to the situation?” “Anyone would have done thatwe’d all be better to get back to normal.” At the center of the film is Tom Stall, a soft-spoken, ordinary family man. He has a wife, Edie (Maria Bello), and two kids,...
Eat Your Heart Out – October 4, 2005
By Lauren Shockey / October 4, 2005
The Basics I am often surprised when people tell me that they cannot cook. Personally, I believe that if you can read, you can cook, since most people fall into trouble when they try to invent recipes. If you follow a recipe from a cookbook, it has undoubtedly been tested by the writer as well as recipe testers and will usually be tasty. So with this weekly column, I’ll provide you with recipes that are integral to my own cooking experiences and share new trends in the food world. For this inaugural column, I thought it would be best to...
Couture du jour – October 4, 2005
By Sarah Cohan / October 4, 2005
Fall is my favorite time of the year because it’s not too hot anymore and it isn’t cold yet, which allows my inner fashionista to be released. The doldrums of bleak winter jackets haven’t set in and the skimpy tank tops of summer can finally be covered. It seems to me that as we enter every new season, fashion tends to harken back to a different era. This summer we got a healthy taste of the bohemian look of the ’60s, and last winter we got to re-enter the ’80s. Now, as we look forward, we must look back, and...
Rock critic learns that Philadelphia is closer to Africa than he thought
By Jim Ryan / September 30, 2005
It’s a funny thing, charity. It’s an even funnier thing when the “charity” doesn’t involve any actual money, just a whole day full of the best music around. I arose late in the day on July 2; picked up my girlfriend, a dozen bagels, and a few bottles of water; and drove to the SEPTA station. We hopped off at Philadelphia’s Suburban Station and an NBC10 reporter immediately shoved a camera and microphone in my face. “So, why are you here?” “To be a part of one of the biggest events of all time!” It’s not often that one really...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do): September 30, 2005
By Hana Yoo / September 30, 2005
Friday, September 30 In case you’ve missed Bethel U of C’s chalkings all over campus, there’s live jazz and yummy, smooth chocolate fondue free for the taking on Bartlett Quad this evening. Donations are requested, with all proceeds going to Hurricane Katrina victims. (4:30 to 6:30 p.m., free, Bartlett Quad) Thai rice farmers Phakphum, Arat, and Kanyah speak about promoting sustainable agriculture, the effects of genetically modified crops on their livelihoods, and free-trade agreements. Their talk comprises just one part of “Grains of Change: A Fair Trade Thai Farmer Tour” which also includes a rice tasting, a discussion with the farmers, and...
Current CSO offering pales in comparison to summer series
By Manasi Vydyanath / September 30, 2005
After the incandescent series of concerts this summer at Ravinia, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra seemed a pale specter of itself last Friday. The cohesion, energy, and technical flair that characterized almost every performance at the festival seemed to have evaporated, leaving behind an apathy reminiscent of the draughtsman going back to work after three months of designing skyscrapers. The program consisted of Mozart’s fifth violin concerto and Ravel’s Rhapsodie Espagnol, Pavane pour infant défunte, Alborada del Gracioso and Bolero. This was very much in the tradition of the Haydn-Bartok pairings in the latter part of last season, combinations that were...
Beck remains vital with the help of his “Black Tambourine”
By Matt Zakosek / September 30, 2005
On the way home on September 21, I ran into a friend of mine who graduated recently. When I told him I had been at the Riviera to see the sold-out Beck show, he asked, “Beck—is that the bald guy? Or is that Moby?” I could see his point. Both artists, while once on the cutting edge, are now pretty mainstream, and critics despised Moby’s latest disc, Hotel. But Beck’s new Guero is supposed to be a sequel-of-sorts to his 1996 classic, Odelay—a disc I don’t own—so Beck surely has a few good years left in him. That’s the impression...
Scorsese leads the way Home with captivating Dylan bio
By Oliver Mosier / September 30, 2005
How did the pedestrian Robert Zimmerman become the poetic Bob Dylan? Legendary film director Martin Scorsese examines the progression of one enigmatic soul from ordinary to extraordinary. His 207-minute film, No Direction Home, documents the folk hero’s life from his birth in 1941 until the apex of his artistic and commercial success in 1966. Scorsese captures the itinerant troubadour that lies beneath the rockstar façade through numerous interviews with those who knew and loved him. Those people include Dave Von Ronk, Liam Clancy, Maria Muldaur, Joan Baez, Allen Ginsberg, and Pete Seeger, to name a few. Original footage of the...
John Mayer switches to the blues, but will the teenyboppers follow?
By Susie Gutowski / September 30, 2005
There’s a new soul brother in town, and he’sJohn Mayer? Yeah, I didn’t think so, either. Until I saw it. Forget everything you know about John Mayer. Forget “Why Georgia, Why?,” “Your Body Is A Wonderland,” and “Bigger Than My Body.” Please, please, please forget “Daughters.” Forget all about his collared shirts and church-boy look. John is now one-third of the John Mayer Trio, a blues-based rock group that played the House of Blues on September 21. He didn’t play any more romantic, first-date songs. Instead he played the kind of jam you put on when you’re back at your...
Proof’s transition to big screen less than genius
By Laura Oppenheimer / September 30, 2005
Films that have delayed releases are generally films of which one should be wary (Prozac Nation with Christina Ricci, Warren Beatty’s flop Town and Country). So it was with a bit of trepidation that I went to see Proof. Proof, you will remember, is the film adapted from U of C alum David Auburn’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play. For the upperclassman on campus, seeing the film crews on campus was a regular feature of fall quarter 2003. The U of C (and its grad students) have never looked more beautiful than in John Madden’s film. The campus is almost weighed down...
Fall movie preview: giant gorillas and Johnny Cash
By Emerald Gao / September 13, 2005
Well, summer’s over, which means two things: School is starting again, and Oscar season is almost upon us. From now through the end of the calendar year, expect the usual big hype about big stars on the big screen. It’s foolish to start the predictions so early in the year, but I’ll admit that there are a few films I’m terribly excited about. First things first. If you haven’t already seen Proof, go catch it before the theaters stop showing it. Not only was the film adapted from a Pulitzer Prize-winning play written by a U of C alum, but...
With Lunar Park, Ellis swaps hubris for humanity
By Matt Zakosek / September 13, 2005
Why is Bret Easton Ellis famous? At the age of 20, he published a novel called Less Than Zero, which was supposed to be an indictment of his rich Beverly Hills friends and how they were nothing more than shallow, empty vessels. The characters in this book prostitute themselves to support their cocaine habits and pop pills to make it through Christmas morning. They watch a 12-year-old girl get gang-raped and a 16-year-old boy get raped and murdered on camera. It makes my skin crawl just writing about it—but no, Bret Easton Ellis is a moralist! Why else would he...
Nintendo’s Geist and Nintendogs together offer fun for gamers and non-gamers alike
By Sean Ahmed / August 23, 2005
After the usual summer gaming drought, Nintendo has released two top-flight titles that together offer a little something for everyone. I’m not using “everyone” in the narrow, gamers-only sense, though. Parents, little siblings, and girlfriends will be just as entertained as your stereotypical gamer between Geist, a first-person shooter/adventure that adds a never-before-seen twist, and Nintendogs, which fully realizes the virtual-pet concept for the first time thanks to the Nintendo DS’s innovative technology. Geist (GameCube, $50, Available Now): First-person shooters have quickly joined Grand Theft Auto clones as the videogame industry’s dime-a-dozen genre, as developers continue to cash in on...
Traveling Pants cure cancer, make asses look great
By Maroon Staff / June 3, 2005
We initially counted ourselves among the privileged few to attend a May 10 sneak preview of The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, which opened nationwide June 1. The film is yet another adaptation of a young-adult novel—this time bringing the first book in Ann Brashares’s New York Times bestselling series of the same name to the screen. We went in with high expectations, given Brashares’s fine contributions to the genre, but came out with, well, a lot to say. The Acting Ilana: I thought America Ferrara was amazing as Carmen. She stood out among the four. Matt: Actually, none of...
Poet cummings marriesand divorcesart and reality in sole full-length play
By Ethan Stanislawski / June 3, 2005
For just about anyone, e.e. cummings can initially seem utterly indecipherable. While those who know better do not to judge his work on this superficial level, it is easy to see how, for some people, cummings represents the worst excess of poetry—a random string of words with no substance. Upon further inspection, however, a method appears to drive his madness: Cummings’s work is characterized by bold verbal and syntactical experimentation, innovative political and social criticism, and a desire to reveal the deeper layers of society. While poetry allows an almost unparalleled level of freedom in writing, playwriting is different; every...
Broadway comes to Chicago for a Wicked good time
By Laura Fuchs / June 3, 2005
Everyone has seen the advertisements on the CTA buses proclaiming that, this summer, one of the best new musicals is here to stay at the Oriental Theater. Wicked is based on Gregory Maguire’s book, which tells the story of Elphaba— otherwise known as the Wicked Witch of the West—and the events of her life before Dorothy drops in. The story starts off in Oz, with the Munchkins and Glinda the Good Witch celebrating the death of the “most wickedest witch there ever was.” We learn that Glinda actually went to school with Elphaba, where Elphaba was shunned because of her...
How-to guide Hardly Working in College joins Cliff’s Notes, crib sheets in the slacker pantheon
By Joe Katz / June 3, 2005
As the U of C increasingly tries to shed its image as the place “Where Fun Goes To Die,” the admissions pool consists more and more of students who can be counted on to get out of the library and into frat parties. As such, there are a growing number of first-years who, for lack of a better word, can be called slackers. These students are taking a bit of a risk in giving Chicago a shot. They may know how to get the party started, but they’ve got to get past the Core to make sure they’re still around...
Red Light Winter illuminates ill-fated ménage à trois
By Carl Pickerill / June 3, 2005
Don’t attend Red Light Winter for the sex, because it’s not very good. Even when 30-second man, Matt (played by Christopher Denham) spruces up the sex in a retrospective recollection of passionate yet ephemeral events, the audience knows that he’s either kidding himself or that the hedonistic euphoria that has dominated his life is due only to inherent selfishness. It’s clear that his lover, Christina (Lisa Joyce), doesn’t share Matt’s feelings. Granted, one can’t necessarily expect unrequited love from a two-bit whore picked up off the streets of Amsterdam on a cold winter’s eve. And we’ll conveniently disregard the fact...
Liam, Noel quit fighting to record best CD in years
By Greg Brown / June 3, 2005
Liam Gallagher, the brash, arrogant, incomprehensible lead singer of Oasis, doesn’t like the current crop of U.K. rock bands. With a quote that will undoubtedly offend the musical tastes of 75 percent of students here at the U of C, Gallagher said of Alex Kapranos, lead singer of Franz Ferdinand, “He reminds me of fucking Right Said Fred. You put on ‘I’m Too Sexy for My Fucking Thing’ next to their records and I bet you any money it’s the same person. He’s just been on the Atkins Diet and grown his hair! I don’t like quirky, weird music. It’s...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – June 3, 2005
By Hana Yoo / June 3, 2005
Friday, June 3 Check out Samuel Beckett’s Endgame, which opened yesterday at Court Theatre, at tonight’s U of C Student Night. A talk with director Christopher Bayes and a free reception with pizza and soda follow the performance. (8 p.m., $8, 5535 South Ellis Avenue) It’s that time of the quarter again—time, that is, for UT Day, a veritable smorgasbord of theater. What caught my eye was Adventures in Diversity, a mockumentary of the diversity video shown during O-Week, at 4:15 p.m. in Cobb 101, but hop from event to event as the spirit moves you. (10 a.m. to 6 p.m., free,...
Father and son explore terrorism’s impact on schools
By Laura Hamilton / June 3, 2005
In Innocent Targets: When Terrorism Comes to School, terrorism and school-safety experts Michael Dorn and Chris Dorn catalogue past incidents of school terrorism and discuss cost-effective precautionary measures. Innocent Targets provides a matter-of-fact account of the natural and human threats facing schools today, and provides broadly applicable tools for crisis prevention and preparedness. Dorn and Dorn refrain from the alarmism in which the media so often indulge, instead emphasizing the extremely low probability of a school terrorism incident. This book is a must-read for school administrators, board members, teachers, and staff members, as well as fire fighters, police officers, and...
Voices Classics: Phair moved from suburbs to rock glory with Exile
By Matt Zakosek / June 3, 2005
Almost nothing you’ve heard about Liz Phair’s Exile in Guyville is of any consequence. Critics like to zero in on two details: the album’s structure, which Phair bravely patterned after the Rolling Stones’s Exile on Main St., and its frank sexuality, which is often disparaged by critics—despite its liberating effect on her music. (If I hear the phrase “I want to be your blowjob queen” quoted one more time, I will scream.) Neither of these factors is the reason Guyville is such a success. It seems that every week, we’re inundated with a bevy of new singer/songwriters looking to make...
Shortcuts – David Morreale’s From the Dirt
By Peter Robinett / June 3, 2005
From the Dirt David Morreale Mud Luscious Records David Morreale is a talented independent musician who explores a variety of acoustic musical styles in his new album, From the Dirt, a tight collection of songs about love and loss and life on the road. Morreale’s tender singing is put to good use as he crafts deeply personal songs that manage to contain happiness and regret, sadness and joy. A solid guitar player, Morreale creates an energetic sound supported by solid backup. Throughout the album, he manages to capture the lure of the open road and the loneliness that can come far from home. Morreale is...
Zen and the art of Hüsker Dü
By Ted Harwood / June 3, 2005
Bob Mould, Grant Hart, and Greg Norton knew they were on to something in late 1983. The reluctant indie kids had released that year’s Metal Circus EP on the southern California hardcore label SST (home of fellow hardcore devotees Black Flag and Minutemen), but both Mould and Hart were writing songs at such a furious pace that another release was imminent. Walking into Total Access Studios in Redondo Beach that October with 25 tracks and about three days of studio time in which to record them presented what would normally be an impossible situation. Not for Hüsker Dü. You see,...
On new album, Casey burns brighter than the Sun
By Dave Aftandilian / May 27, 2005
Karan Casey is one of the finest Irish traditional singers of her generation. And you’ll have a rare chance to hear her live this weekend at Chicago Gaelic Park’s Irish Fest (cgp-chicago.org/Irish_Fest/irish_fest.htm). I first fell under the spell of Casey’s voice when I heard her singing with the Irish traditional group Solas at the U of C Folk Festival about 10 years ago. After recording three excellent albums with Solas, Casey embarked on a solo career in 1999. Chasing the Sun, released last month, is her fourth solo album (not counting a fun children’s musical she composed a few years...
Hottest show in town pairs conductor Levine and CSO director Barenboim
By Malkah Bressler / May 27, 2005
Getting student tickets to the CSO is usually easy on a weeknight. You go an hour before the concert, pay $10 to 15 in cash, and voila! You are allowed to hear and watch one of the best orchestras in the country. So imagine my surprise when after calling ahead, I learned that there were no student or press tickets available for a Tuesday night performance. With a little help from my editor and the Max Palevsky Resident Masters, however, I snagged a ticket, and as we bumped downtown in a big yellow school bus, I mused over what exactly...
Boredoms startle, then drone in Japanoise show
By Al Shaw / May 27, 2005
The first thing I heard was a blast of static before I rushed to shove my earplugs in. The sound appeared to be generated by these clear plastic orbs that were being violently swung around by Boredoms front man Yamataka Eye. Every time he moved these light-up yellow balls, a different sound came out. The most pronounced was a deafening wave of white noise when he slammed the objects down on the stage. Even though the Boredoms played at the Logan Square Auditorium, a modest ballroom more suited to wedding receptions than Japanoise performances, the atmosphere was like a pyrotechnic...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – May 27, 2005
By Hana Yoo / May 27, 2005
Friday, May 27 Today and tomorrow you can feast your eyes on the graceful dancers of University Ballet in Ballet Bricolage—a show featuring original choreography in a range of styles, from the strictly classical to the very modern. (8:30 p.m., $5, Mandel Hall) FOTA’s not quite over yet. Check out its last hurrah, the Lightbox Orchestra, tonight in BARTS. Students playing clarinet, flute, bassoon, trumpet, percussion, and dry ice are given their cues by a lightbox operator. U of C student Ivan Khilko opens with a laptop set. (9 p.m., free, Bartlet Arts rehearsal space) U of C alum William Caplin speaks...
Shortcuts – Thievery Corporation @ the Vic
By Peter Robinett / May 27, 2005
Thievery Corporation Vic Theater May 16 Thievery Corporation, the wide-ranging duo of Eric Hilton and Rob Garza, came through Chicago recently to support their latest album, The Cosmic Game. After the opening act (an ’80s pop act infused with tropical sounds), Garza and Hilton took the stage. Hilton played bass, while Garza handled the electronics in what served as a brief instrumental introduction to the show. Then they took their places behind the elevated center consoles, and the band emerged. Percussionists Frank Orrall and John Nelson, guitarist/sitar player Rob Myers, and a bassist were on stage the entire night, with a saxophonist, trumpeter,...
Get a Life – May 27, 2005
By Erica Cerulo and Claire Mazur / May 26, 2005
Erica: The first time I saw Claire, my cohort and soon-to-be successor, was during my second year and her first. Quite frankly, her hair is hard to miss. I was waiting outside of Max P. during O-week, and she was in running gear, piling her hair on the top of her head. She claims it is the only run she ever went on that year. Rush, a mutual friend, introduced us sometime late in fall quarter. She had just started dating a basketball player. Rush set us up since I, too, had dated a basketball player at the beginning of...
Summer Breeze bill meshes three disparate genres
By Jim Ryan / May 23, 2005
Last Saturday night the Major Activities Board (MAB) served up the most major of its activities, the Summer Breeze concert, held in Hutchinson Courtyard, which was described by the show’s opener, songstress Julie Roberts, as “very pretty.” Indeed, Hutchinson Courtyard provides an interesting setting for a concert. The Gothic jungle created by the excess of ivy crawling up the Reynolds Club seemed to transport concertgoers out of the South Side of Chicago. Music started pumping from DJ Blockhead’s speakers as soon as people started trickling in via Botany Pond. The courtyard was almost half-full when Julie Roberts and her band...
You mean there’s a plot, too? Visuals are only the icing on this Layer Cake
By Matt Johnston / May 23, 2005
The weekend belongs to the Sith. There’s no question about that. Darth Vader is not only on 9,400 theater screens in the U.S. and Canada, but also on millions of televisions hawking for Burger King and M&Ms. For Star Wars fans, this marks the return of George Lucas to some reasonable fraction of his original prowess. To everyone else, I imagine, little could be more annoying. The real tragedy, though, is not that Yoda has sold out and starting pitching Pepsi. It’s that a slick little thriller called Layer Cake had the unforgivable misfortune of opening this weekend, automatically relegating...
British Sea Power brings branches, birds, and beats
By Irene Gallego / May 23, 2005
In 2002, Rolling Stone magazine had this to say about British Sea Power’s performance at the Reading Festival: “All of them have crazy acid-fried stares, the bass player is wearing tree branches on his head and one deliriously psychedelic tune concludes with singer Yan beating on the drum-kit with a large stuffed owl. British Sea Power rule.” I was not so sure about the acid last Thursday at the Logan Square Auditorium, but everything else is more or less true. If there is need to delve into specifics then it should be said that it was guitarist Noble who wore...
Mountain Goats thrill devotees by remaining true to the same old sound
By Mehan Jayasuria / May 23, 2005
It’s somewhat amazing that the so-called “Mountain Goats” have been getting away with this for so long. It’s been nearly 15 years since John Darnielle first started recording under the moniker, releasing a slew of cassette albums recorded with only an acoustic guitar and a boom box. Since then, Darnielle’s aesthetic has evolved, favoring a cleaner and occasionally orchestral sound on recent releases. However, his emphasis still clearly remains with the lyrics on which the Goats built their reputation; Darnielle’s literate yet quirky journeys through the fantastically mundane and his markedly nasal delivery have become something of a trademark. When...
Small Time Cooks – May 24, 2005
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / May 23, 2005
The time has finally come for the Small Time Cooks to say goodbye. Both of us are graduating and moving on to more school, where we can only hope that we’ll find as great of a community of people who love to cook. The last two years of writing the column have not only been fun but also a terrific learning experience for both of us, and we have grown so much in the kitchen. A love of food motivated us to try this, and it has been a wonderful experience to create something of our own and share it...
In Yoda-speak: Worth the wait, Episode III is
By Joel Lanceta / May 20, 2005
AMC River East 21: You will never find a more wretched hive of fandom and geekiness. Grown men and women in Jedi-wear battle with toy lightsabers. And I was proudly participating in a debate on whether the Ewoks saved or destroyed Return of the Jedi. Yes, the loyal had gathered to see if Star Wars: Episode III—Revenge of the Sith would save the Force. For this loyal Padawan, it did. To paraphrase Master Yoda: “Balance the Force did George Lucas.” Granted, Episode I and II sucked ass; those movies are unredeemable. But Lucas wisely learned from his mistakes and crafted...
Ambitious Omar, Cedric leave the Drive-In for a musical mission to Mars
By Ron Vasquez / May 20, 2005
So what are you to do when your band is about to hit it big, and then it breaks up mere moments later? In the case of post-punk outfit At The Drive-In, the answer was to start a new band. Former ATDI vocalist Cedric Bixler Zavala and former ATDI guitarist Omar Rodriguez Lopez often felt limited by the creative differences in their band and made the decision to undertake a new, adventurous project of their own: the Mars Volta. To classify the music produced by the Mars Volta is a difficult task. Considering the eclectic influences evident throughout their debut...
Classical music from 1904 Vienna to today’s Chicago
By Manasi Vydyanath / May 20, 2005
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra played Alban Berg’s brilliant Chamber Concerto under the equally brilliant Pierre Boulez this Monday. I was to review that event, but due to Chicago traffic, I got to Symphony Hall sometime around intermission. Of course, I was much too late to write a decent concert review, and therefore, feeling vaguely irresponsible, I thought I would make it up to you by writing a piece on Alban Berg instead. Vienna, 1904: Those were scintillating times. Classical music was trying to find its bearings and direction in the aftermath of Wagner—four centuries of ordered, beautiful development had reached...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – May 20, 2005
By Hana Yoo / May 20, 2005
Friday, May 20 Go watch the existential comedy I Heart Huckabees on the main quads, and then dance the night away at COUP’s dance party on the Classics Quad, while enjoying free refreshments. (9 p.m. to 4 a.m., free, main and Classics quads) Donate to a worthy cause and listen to the sweet sounds of a cappella at “Voices United for Darfur,” featuring the U of C’s Ransom Notes and U of I’s all-male group, the Xtension Chords, in the Bartlett Dance Room. (9:30 p.m., $2 in advance, $3 at the door, Bartlett Dance Room) Head over to the Smart...
Get a Life – May 20, 2005
By Erica Cerulo / May 20, 2005
An article I read in The New York Times two Sundays ago seriously offended me. The piece, called “Hangovers and Leftovers,” addressed the perception that, as a cultural institution, brunch is so passé. The author, Bob Morris, explains, “Many insist that it’s not an authentic meal. Who, for example, ever heard of a power brunch? And has anyone ever broken up over brunch? No. The food is too soft and squishy, the atmosphere one of pleasantries.” And that, Mr. Morris, is exactly why I love the meal. Brunch cannot be threatening. It is cozy. It is fattening. It is long....
Beer, ballads, and Bono
By Greg Brown / May 20, 2005
$106 for a ticket. On the top level. In the 14th row. Oh, the joys of attending a big rock show. I figured the only way to not think about the ticket price was to drink (heavily) before and during the show. Oh, yeah—$7.50 for a beer. Of course, by the time I had arrived at the United Center with plenty of tequila in my stomach, $7.50 seemed like pocket change. But enough about me. Let’s talk about U2. U2 tours are notorious for their over-the-top staging and lighting, and the Elevation Tour does not disappoint. A spotlight came on,...
Electronic duo strives and fails to make intelligent dance music
By Peter Robinett / May 17, 2005
The British electronic duo of Sean Booth and Rob Brown, also known as Autechre, recently came to the Metro to promote their latest album, Untitled. Having only heard them a little, I decided on a whim to check them out. Autechre came out at 1 a.m., and the crowd cheered loudly. It was obvious that almost everyone had just been marking time through the two previous acts, DJ Rob Hall and the duo SND. All the stage lights turned off except for some onstage reading lights and emergency lights, and Booth and Brown took their positions behind their equipment. For...
David Lieberman: Another chef who ought to cook naked
By Ilana Emmett / May 17, 2005
With the exception of a very brief period in elementary school during which the only TV I would watch was the Food Network, I’ve pretty much steered clear of cooking shows. It didn’t take long for me to decide that the hosts are generally annoying and that they are never making anything I’ll cook anyway. But about a month ago, that all changed. I found out that someone I went to school with during those elementary days was getting his very own show on the Food Network. If for no other reason than Philly pride, I decided to tune in,...
Reznor runs out of words to rhyme with “disease”
By Paul Mantz / May 17, 2005
Every once in a while, a band comes along with an album that completely rocks your perception. And then that band puts out an album that makes you wonder if they completely forgot everything they did that people enjoyed. Nine Inch Nails’ With Teeth is one of the latter. The awkward vocals and stripped-down instrumentals we worshipped as part of NIN’s raw, uncomplicated style now come out hackneyed and stilted. Trent Reznor’s voice is seething with emotion, but the target is vague. The main problem with this album is that we don’t get what we expect. I had been following...
The aesthetic brilliance of Toscanini and Furtwangler
By Manasi Vydyanath / May 17, 2005
Interpretation is an art that revolves around the definition of perspectives—in the crucible of analysis, most of the differences in performance come down to whether the artist creates the work from outside, looking in, or from the inside, looking out. Last Friday, the Akademie für Alte Musik presented a beautiful exploration into both possibilities; they played Handel Suite from “Almira,” Vivaldi’s Concerto in D minor for two Oboes, Bach’s Concerto for two violins, and Geminiani’s Concerto Grosso no. 12 under the direction of Georg Kallweit, a meticulous craftsman who chiseled each work into poised beauty while being completely removed from...
Million Dollar Baby scribe wows with Crash
By John Frame / May 17, 2005
Paul Haggis, screenwriter of the best film of 2004—the brilliant Million Dollar Baby—makes his directorial debut with the equally intriguing and forceful Crash. Crash is a film that hits us in the one place we spend our lives trying to protect: the heart. Crash is not only a film about race relations; it is also incredibly real in its contemporary colloquial dialogue and three-dimensional characters. Too many people to count turn up in the most unlikely situations, catalyzed by their own insecurities and preconceived notions of the “others” that live around them. Recreating the entire plot of the film would...
Win the next argument with your condescending roommate with this book
By Isaac Wolf / May 17, 2005
It turns out, after all, that those countless hours in front of the tube weren’t for naught: The endless games of Mario Brothers. The after-school, bowl-of-cereal-in-the-lap cartoon rituals. And the frolicking on the internet. Oh, the time wasted on the internet. Web surfing—jumping from blog to gossip column to, occasionally, a bona fide New York Times Style section article—has become our generation’s guilty pleasure. It’s what we do instead of work, or in between checking our e-mail. It’s quite possibly the only reason our generation won’t solve the laundry list of humanity’s Big Problems. And, in Steven Johnson’s new book...
Film festival challenges students with vow of silence
By Emerald Gao / May 17, 2005
Last winter, fourth-year Mike LaRocco was approached by UT member Ramiro Castro in hopes of making a film with his sketch comedy group Big Dog Eat Child. LaRocco recalls in an e-mail interview, “I wanted to make the film in the style of an early slapstick comedy, which meant that I didn’t have the luxury of sound; I had to think completely visually.” The result, The Great Poker Chase, became the inspiration for the Silent Film Festival, an incredible collaboration between Fire Escape Films, University Theater, student musicians, and faculty members. Last Friday, 16 short films were presented in 16mm...
Books speak volumes with wordplay, unique sound
By Al Shaw / May 13, 2005
Anyone that went to the Hive’s first show this quarter, featuring Animal Collective, probably left the cloister club satisfied but drained in a kind of aural catharsis that can only be obtained by a tetanus of the eardrum. Their second show which brought the Books to Hutch Commons this past Saturday night, while no less affecting, radiated with a different form of energy—the kind that comes from watching expert musicians pushing the limits of their genre, while still providing the kind of accessibility that seems so lacking in indie music these days. On Saturday, The Books proved that classical/folk-rock crossover...
Spoon loses some shine, but retains subtlety and resonance on latest album
By David Nagel / May 13, 2005
I doubt that anyone has ever been blown away by Spoon upon a first listen. That’s not the way Spoon operates. Since they began playing in the mid-’90s, Spoon has evolved its sound in many ways, but its secret weapon has always been subtlety. Even 1998’s Series of Sneaks, ostensibly straight-ahead Pixies indie guitar rock with a (perhaps feigned) sneering attitude, reveals an intricate manipulation of the rhythms lurking between sound and space that became one of Spoon’s calling cards. With its next two LPs, Girls Can Tell and Kill the Moonlight, Spoon expanded its sound to incorporate an ever-increasing...
Kremer, Barenboim audacious but not impenetrable
By Alexander Coppock / May 13, 2005
What set of nine pieces for orchestra has been rehearsed, recorded, performed, interpreted and reinterpreted more often than any other? Right. When Daniel Barenboim saunters on stage to make his mark, he has more difficulty with Beethoven than with anyone else because it’s been done, and done, and done. Even if they don’t, everyone knows Beethoven’s symphonies, and they know they can buy a performance on Amazon for $17.99 that will outplay Barenboim and his Chicago band any day. (Personally, I recommend Carlos Kleiber and the Vienna Philharmonic.) Last Saturday, Barenboim gave a damn good showing. His Beethoven’s Seventh was...
Scripture gets Southern-fried in Cotton Patch Gospel
By Carl Pickerill / May 13, 2005
Of all the Hollywood- and Broadway-style renditions of the life of Christ, Harry Chapin’s Cotton Patch Gospel, a bluegrass version of the oft-told story, might border on something of which even the most pious Christian would approve: benign, upbeat, light-hearted, accessible. It may not be as friendly toward Southern evangelists as Jerry Falwell might have it, but nevertheless, Cotton Patch Gospel is refreshing and not wholly irreverent. Given the multitude of modern-day renditions—rock ‘n’ roll Jesus in Jesus Christ Superstar, corruptible Jesus in The Last Temptation of Christ, and reluctant British Jesus in Life of Brian—a new attempt to make...
Fall Out Boy may be the headliners, but The Academy Is… steals the show
By James Corcoran / May 13, 2005
The past weeks have been good for Fall Out Boy. The power-pop quartet from the Chicago suburbs (guitarist and lead vocalist Patrick Stump, vocalist and bassist Pete Wentz, guitarist Joe Trohman, and drummer Andy Hurley) released their sophomore effort, From Under the Cork Tree, on May 3. The album debuted in the ninth spot on the Billboard charts. They finished their 50-day headlining tour with an all-Chicago lineup at the sold-out Riviera Theatre for their record release show on Saturday, May 7. The hometown crowd eagerly awaited its first chance to hear the latest offering live. The first band up...
Addicts take note: This Crystal may be good for you
By Peter Robinett / May 13, 2005
The Crystal Method, one of the best-known American electronic music groups, came through Chicago last Friday on their U.S. tour supporting their latest DJ album, Community Service II. The show was held at the Metro. Due to a sold-out and highly anticipated Coldplay concert only a few hours earlier at 7 p.m., the doors didn’t open until midnight, an hour late. The late opening meant that many fans spent up to two hours waiting outside in a line that wrapped almost completely around the bar next to the Metro. Luckily, it was a nice night, and the fans were in...
Weezer remains elusive to wide spectrum of fans
By Carl Pickerill / May 13, 2005
The Aragon Ballroom lacks all semblance of charm. The managers, therefore, feel compelled to lure top-notch bands that bring in the multitudes. Weezer filled the role last Wednesday evening while on tour to support their new album Make Believe, brandishing their nerd-rock to a sold-out crowd under the artificial terra-cotta and kitschy Mediterranean façades that pitiably grace the theater’s interior. Their opening band Ringside played to an initially humdrum and nonchalant audience that withheld any sort of enthusiastic ovation in lieu of lukewarm applause—as can be expected for all opening bands. Not that the indifference wasn’t undeserved. A miasmatic “whhhyyyy...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) – May 13, 2005
By Hana Yoo / May 13, 2005
Friday, May 13 Festival of the Arts (FOTA) 2005, an annual weeklong celebration of the arts across campus, kicks off its festivities today with its launch party and fashion show at the Smart Museum. This event features music by DJ Ruici Tio and refreshments. For a full schedule of the week’s events and installations—and there are a lot of them—go to fota.uchicago.edu/schedule.html. (9 p.m., free, Smart Museum) Head over to Doc to see 16 original film shorts produced by U of C students in today’s Silent Film Festival, put on by Fire Escape Films. You won’t watch them in silence, though, as...
Garbage’s angsty, stripped-down rock entrances fans at sold-out show
By Irene Gallego / May 13, 2005
If you only know Garbage from songs like “Stupid Girl,” “Only Happy When It Rains,” and “I Think I’m Paranoid,” then you’d expect lead singer Shirley Manson to be an angry grrl. Or perhaps, acknowledging her age, it is more accurate to call her an angry womyn at this point. While Manson’s lyrics remain as angst-ridden as ever (“I think you’re sleeping with a friend of mine/I have no proof but I think it’s the truth”), the band itself, at least when seen live, is a completely different story. Garbage is currently touring after four years of silence to promote...
Get a Life – May 13, 2005
By Erica Cerulo / May 13, 2005
My mother is Jewish, and my father is Catholic. By the time people are my age, they have likely picked a side. By the time they are in eighth grade, they will have likely picked bat or bar mitzvah or Communion. Instead, when asked about religion, I have kept on with the “I am half-Jewish, half-Catholic” to this day. To be honest, I am neither, and I wasn’t really raised to be either. Instead of Easter gifts, I got “spring” gifts as a kid, since—unlike the Christmas/Hanukkah duo—Passover does not pair well with Easter. Note that the spring gift one...
Diamonds in the rough
By Nora Hanna / May 13, 2005
In association of Live Bait Theatre, the Field Museum presents Letitia Baldrige’s Of Diamonds and Diplomats. It is the true, although sugarcoated, tale of Baldrige’s time as Jackie Kennedy’s social secretary. Baldrige was Jackie Kennedy’s go-between among some of the most important figures of the Cold War. The characters mingle on a stage that consists of only mics and scripts. Occasionally, they use a hat or tiara as a prop, but the strength of the piece relies on the actors. Many of the performances are strong, and all of the actors, with the exception of Laurie Larson, who plays Baldrige,...
Dizzee Rascal, Roots Manuva electrify U.K. hip-hop
By Jon Malik / May 10, 2005
Ask around about British hip-hop artists, and you’ll most likely be given the Streets, Dizzee Rascal, Roots Manuva, and more recently, Wiley and M.I.A. No! From that list, the only one who could be called hip-hop is Roots Manuva, but he hardly represents the U.K. scene, because he’s always done his own thing. Most of the beats underneath Mike Skinner’s (a.k.a. the Streets’) humorous lyrics are U.K. garage (but anyone who takes that man too seriously is an idiot). M.I.A. does her own blend of grime, garage, Bhangra, and other sounds, but it’s never hip-hop. And Wiley and Dizzee Rascal...
The Bad Plus adds fun to jazzas long as they stay clear of Queen covers
By Nick Morrison / May 10, 2005
These are the Vistas, the Bad Plus’s first major label record, released in 2003, remains one of my favorite albums almost two years after I first heard it. And I think it will remain a sort of minor cornerstone in music history, if only by being the first-ever recorded jazz performance of “Smells Like Teen Spirit” (Nirvana’s seminal grunge track from the album Nevermind). The opening track, “Big Eater,” is one of those tracks that you can tell has a “weird rhythm” (the head of the tune shifts back and fourth between seven-eight and six-eight), but like so many great...
The Hold Steady gets serious on gloomy Sunday
By Ted Harwood / May 10, 2005
Anybody who has listened to the first album by the Hold Steady, Almost Killed Me, might be slightly disappointed by their latest effort Separation Sunday. This is presuming, of course, that what these people found so great about the former is the complete disavowal of anything serious. Almost Killed Me felt a bit like a lost Saturday night, bits and pieces of which come to you when you’re trying to wake up in the morning two months later and wondering what happened to all of the people you met. To say that Separation Sunday replaces that sense of reckless abandon...
UT show invites different takes on Art
By Emerald Gao / May 10, 2005
Serge buys a painting: white lines on a white background. One friend, Marc, is visibly upset by his purchase, insisting that the painting is “a piece of shit.” The painting grows on Yvan, the other friend. Despite its simple premise and short running time, Art is about more than just its title. As can be expected, the three men’s friendship are called into question, with explosive results, but the play isn’t really about camaraderie either. It would be fair to say that Art, like art, is highly subjective to the audience’s interpretation of the events presented onstage. The brevity of...
Small Time Cooks – May 10, 2005
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / May 10, 2005
Maria was a little under the weather, so I decided to take her something to raise her spirits—not my usual spirits, which I keep in my flask, but a hearty stew and a fruit dessert. Vegetable and Barley Stew 2 Tablespoons olive oil 1 onion, chopped 3 cloves garlic, minced 1 leek (white and light green parts), sliced 6 oz. mushrooms, sliced 1 red bell pepper, diced 2 tomatoes, seeded and chopped 1/3 cup merlot (or red cooking wine) 1 14.5 oz. can corn, drained 1 14.5 oz. can white beans, drained and rinsed 1 8 oz. can tomato sauce...
Siren’s Call shows signs of classic New Order glory
By Seth Mayer / May 10, 2005
In 24 Hour Party People, a movie that tells the story of the rise of post-punk bands like New Order, the main character looks around a club in Manchester, the birthplace of this overwhelmingly influential music scene, and muses, “This is the moment when even the white man starts dancing.” This quote characterizes the music of New Order, whose newest album is Waiting for the Siren’s Call, much more than it does the revered band that begat them, Joy Division. After Joy Division lead singer Ian Curtis’s suicide in 1980, New Order created a more pop/dance-oriented music while preserving something...
Everything comes up Roses on Ryan Adams’s latest
By Greg Brown / May 10, 2005
He’s an arrogant asshole. He’s a tortured genius. He’s past his prime, still living off of his early critical success. He’s maturing into one of the most prolific singer/songwriters of his generation. He’s Ryan Adams, and he’s most, if not all of the above. He also has three albums planned for release this year (Jacksonville City Lights and 29 should be out in late summer or early fall), the first of which is a long-awaited return to country-rock. To some, Cold Roses might seem like the true follow-up to Ryan Adams’s solo debut, Heartbreaker. It’s full of lap steel guitar...
Voices STD – May 6, 2005
By Hana Yoo / May 6, 2005
Friday, May 6 Scav Hunt started Wednesay night at midnight, but you have until Sunday (Judgment Day) to get in on the fun, perhaps by getting circumcised or putting on a puppet- show-within-a-puppet-show-within-a-puppet- show or just by taking this opportunity to get sloshed on the Quads tonight at the Scav Hunt party. “Masculine Wiles,” a collection of films and videos from the Women in the Director’s Chair International Film and Video Festival, delves into masculinity, past and present. (12 p.m., free, Center for Gender Studies) Prove your smarts, munch on pizza, and get a shot at the grand prize of more than...
Shortcuts – Tree Thirteen’s Rough Grooves Surface
By Peter Robinett / May 6, 2005
Three Thirteen Rough Grooves Surface Out the Box Up-and-coming Chicago hip-hop group Tree Thirteen have launched themselves onto the music scene with their debut album Rough Grooves Surface, which is sure to please music fans everywhere with their quality tunes and engaging lyrics. The group is composed of front man Tree Roots and his partner behind the turntables DJ 007. The album is an ambitious project, including rock and R&B elements and everything in between. It is a testament to Tree Thirteen’s skill that this hybrid never comes across as forced or artificial, but instead evolves into a coherent sound. “Cab Driver” may have grinding...
Paris Hilton sets out to prove her acting chopsby getting chopped up
By Navpaul Singh / May 6, 2005
Rich, beautiful, glamorous, Simple-minded: These are attributes commonly associated with the famous Paris Hilton, whose new movie, House of Wax, played at Max Palevsky Cinema this past Monday, May 2, and opens in theaters everywhere Friday, May 6. I had the chance to speak with Paris over the phone as part of a conference call to promote the movie, set up by Warner Bros. and Hess Newmark Owens Wolf (HNOW), an advertising, publicity, and promotions firm. In addition to House of Wax, Paris spoke about her other productions and what she sees herself doing in the future. Oddly enough, she...
Get a Life – May 6, 2005
By Erica Cerulo / May 6, 2005
As you make your way down this page, I am losing friends. One by one, they are disowning me. Jon—already at his wit’s end thanks to my incessant teasing—will give me the cold shoulder. Nikhil will no longer reminisce with me about adventures abroad. Vance will uninvite me to our Tuesday get-togethers. I am committing a crime against them. I am telling you about their Union. For many of my friends, the Union is an integral part of the week. They go every Friday, more consistently than they go to class. Come rain, snow, or blustery winds, they wait for...
UT adaptation of Shange’s for colored girls shows all colors of humanity
By Claire Gilbert / May 6, 2005
Upon arriving at the Third Floor Theater of the Reynolds Club on Wednesday night, the house manager chirped, “Hi. Are you here to see colored girls?” Somewhat taken aback by his accidental strange phrasing, I took my seat in the second row and cracked open my program. I felt somewhat apprehensive upon reading director John Frame’s production notes. In them, he warned that the play I was about to see, for colored girls who have considered suicide/when the rainbow is enuf, is neither “race sensitive” nor “time sensitive.” You see, I like race sensitivity; I like political correctness. Above all,...
Pacifica Quartet takes its time to cohere but triumphs by end of the night
By Malkah Bressler / May 6, 2005
This past Friday, the University of Chicago Presents saw its last Pacifica Quartet concert of the 2004-2005 season. The concert began with Beethoven’s Quartet in D major, Op. 18, No. 3, and Hindemith’s String Quartet, Op. 22. They were joined in the second half by the renowned Menahem Pressler for Schumann’s Piano Quintet in E-flat, Op. 44. At the outset, their sound was regrettably too light and superficial to capture the essence of this piece, in which Beethoven’s rebellion from classical form and style started to surface. The piece seemed to play itself, and the hints of exquisite intonation only...
House of Wax is no classic, but it serves up the scares
By Matt Johnston / May 6, 2005
Expectations could not be much lower for Jaume Serra’s House of Wax, a remake—in name only—of the 1953 cult piece starring Vincent Price. Any description of this new incarnation using key phrases including “Paris Hilton,” “Chad Michael Murray,” “teen slasher,” and “utter piece of shit” should shout out to any mildly competent film viewer: “STAY HOME!” So, dear readers, it is with great surprise that I find myself recommending this film to you. How much did I love it? I am planning to pay actual, hard-earned money to see it again with friends. I think about it as I fall...
Shortcuts: Crystal Method’s “Community Service II”
By Peter Robinett / May 2, 2005
The Crystal Method Community Service II Ultra Perhaps best known for their tracks “Get Busy Child” and “Name of the Game,” the Crystal Method make music that is both hard-rocking with huge beats and undeniably electronic. Following their 2004 artist album Legion of Boom and 2002 DJ album Community Service, they have put together their second DJ album. Community Service II has more in common with its predecessor than just its name. The album takes a variety of electronic and rock songs, plays them louder, harder, adds bigger beats, and fuses them together into a coherent, hard-driving, and energetic set. Several songs in Community...
Thax Douglas recites poetry to hipsters
By Nicholas Hudac / May 2, 2005
Thax Douglas wants me to meet him in front of a diner that doesn’t exist anymore. The place where Sparky’s Restaurant once stood is now chunks of concrete and rebar sitting jaggedly on the ground like smashed eggshells, framed by a seedy building labeled MSI Detective Services and a sleepy coffeehouse on the corner of Ashland and School. He had called me up at work, polite and slightly shy, to confirm our meeting. I had seen him at an underground rock show a few weeks earlier, reading a poem before a gang of scruffy hipsters clambered onto the stage. He...
On retro release, overhyped Raveonettes party like it’s 1950
By Seth Mayer / May 2, 2005
Remember when garage rock was going to change the world? No, no; not the ’50s. No one remembers that. Think back to those idealistic days of ’02, before Jack White had a Dick Dastardly mustache and beat the shit out of that guy from the Von Bondies. It was back then that all a couple of Danish people had to do to be a buzz band was get the music press to compare them to some underground favorite from the ’80s or ’90s. And so the Raveonettes came onto the scene, their flag with the words “We are the bastard...
Small Time Cooks: May 3, 2005
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / May 2, 2005
The air was cooling down outside, so Maria and I wanted to spice things up. We defied the wind and decided to grill with some friends. I had just nabbed a few crooks on the North Side after staking them out all week. Their hangout of choice was across the street from this Mexican place, and the food was good enough to keep me on the case, even if the pay wasn’t. I suggested to Maria that we stuff some peppers and grill them, and I picked up a few pork chops to marinate and grill for my friends. Makes...
Jarrett’s Radiance shines through in latest endeavor
By Eric Benson / May 2, 2005
Keith Jarrett has never aspired to modesty. At the age of 26, Jarrett recorded an album of completely improvised solo piano, shunning the safety nets of accompaniment and song structure in order to reach an unalloyed form of personal expression. Since that album, Facing You, Jarrett’s solo recordings and concerts have been both fetishized and reviled, assuming a place as the signature works of his long and multi-faceted career. Jarrett was a member of both the Charles Lloyd Quartet and Miles Davis’s first fusion band. He has helmed groups featuring luminaries like Charlie Haden and Paul Motian. Over the past...
Indie staple Yo La Tengo stretches the limits of rock with transcendent noise
By Shaun Cullen / May 2, 2005
I have seen Yo La Tengo (YLT) twice before. The first time was when they played at the Virgin Megastore on Union Square to promote 2000’s And Then Nothing Turned Itself Inside Out. Later, I caught them before a huge crowd, headlining the Primavera Sound festival in Barcelona. The venues for both performances denied YLT the volume control that has earned them my approbation. As expected, their appearance in the archetypically clubbish confines of the sold-out Vic Theatre on April 21 provided YLT with a superior acoustic setting. They used the appearance, part of a short tour in support of...
Animal Collective unleashes quirky rock at the U of C
By Seth Mayer / May 2, 2005
Much to the glee of noise rockers throughout Chicago, WHPK and student group the Hive collaborated to put on the free Animal Collective show last Friday night. The Animal Collective, a four-person group from Brooklyn, is one of the most interesting experimental music groups around. And, more importantly, they appear in publicity photos wearing animal costumes. Their last full-length album, Sung Tongs, sounds like the Beach Boys—if the Beach Boys were naked, lost in the forest, and on acid, with only a drum machine and their guitars for protection. The kids in the front row were wearing animal masks, no...
Nintendo DS puzzler Polarium challenges both dexterity and brains
By Sean Ahmed / April 29, 2005
In its first six months of release, the Nintendo DS has shown remarkable versatility. While the PSP handles game graphics and, to a lesser extent, multimedia well, the DS interface has proved to be far more intuitive and innovative for handheld games. We’ve seen Mario 64 DS pull off analog control, Yoshi Touch & Go incorporate user-created, indirect movement, and Metroid Prime Hunters mimic a computer first-person shooter’s mouse-and-keyboard control. Coupled with the embedded communication software and more conventional GBA capabilities, the system offers, as its biggest strength, a wide variety of user interactivity. That repertoire expands with Nintendo’s newest...
Art of Undressing author embarrasses herself with prose, not lack of clothes
By Laura Hamilton / April 29, 2005
How does a 25-year-old aspiring chef manage to deal with a sexually uninhibited ex-stripper mother, a callous quasi-estranged father, a moody 12-year-old half-sister, a hypercritical French cooking instructor, and utterly incomprehensible men? Stephanie Lehmann’s The Art of Undressing seeks to answer that age-old question as she follows protagonist Ginger Levine, a culinary student, through Manhattan. Ginger’s mother, Coco, a former exotic dancer who currently teaches striptease classes and shills vibrators, provides a not-so-subtle foil for gawky, self-conscious, relatively conservative Ginger. Coco’s and Ginger’s opposite sexual philosophies provide a background for Lehmann’s trite philosophical ruminations on feminism and feminine sexuality. Lehmann...
Damned deserve spot in Brit punk hall of fame with ferocious 1977 album
By Ted Harwood / April 29, 2005
You can be fairly sure that you’re in a punk rock band when your drummer’s name is Rat Scabies. That name conjures up the image of zit-faced, spiky-haired, sexed-up 20-somethings in a way that Johnny Rotten doesn’t quite approach. It is thus fitting that the band that Scabies drummed for, The Damned, made punk sounds that the Sex Pistols, their friends and erstwhile band mates, didn’t quite approach. Although traditional histories of British punk (it’s kind of strange to use the words “traditional” and “history” when talking about British punk) focus on The Sex Pistols and The Clash, they would...
Lloyd’s Creek adds new facet to long career
By Eric Benson / April 29, 2005
Charles Lloyd’s career has been a drama of many acts. In 1966, Lloyd’s quartet with Keith Jarrett, Jack DeJohnette, and Cecil McBee was the most popular group in jazz, slaying audiences from Monterey to Montreux in a now-legendary summer romp through the world festival circuit. By the early ’70s, Lloyd had given up jazz saxophone and flute for transcendental meditation and New Age mood music. In the mid-’80s, the French pianist Michel Petruciani convinced Lloyd to end his premature jazz retirement, resulting in a European tour and two live albums. Lloyd has been an important and characteristically enigmatic force on...
Bad acting, misguided direction leave Hitchhiker’s Guide stranded in space
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 29, 2005
After 25 years of anticipation, the wait is over. The result is just as disappointing as waiting for 10 million years for the answer “42.” Disney has made a variety of poor decisions in its train wreck of an adaptation of The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, a novel with such an unusual, quirky style. The result is not so much a bastardization of the novel as it is a bad, campy Hollywood summer blockbuster. The producers made the inexplicable choice of marketing to children. While Douglas Adams’s novel appeals to all ages, this decision means his ingenious wit, sarcasm,...
Solondz’s Palindromes is a work of outrageand art
By Matt Zakosek / April 29, 2005
It’s a real testament to Todd Solondz’s filmmaking genius that I loved his latest, Palindromes (opening today at the Landmark Century Centre Cinema), because the first thing we see onscreen in the movie is a title card reading “In loving memory of Dawn Wiener.” Who is Dawn Wiener? Only my favorite character from the cinema ever, introduced in Solondz’s film debut, Welcome to the Dollhouse (he directed one before that called Fear, Anxiety, & Depression that he’s since disowned). We learn that Dawn had grown obese, developed an excruciating dermatological condition, and (possibly) killed herself as a result of her...
Carmen Consoli delivers enough passion for two countries
By Jenna Telesca / April 26, 2005
Looking around at the line in front of the HotHouse, my friend and I are the only ones without noticeable smile lines or a speckling of grey in our hair. The people in front of us snicker when asked by the bouncer for their IDs. (They probably have kids his age.) After I walk into the venue, however, all my initial fears were assuaged. The giant room is painted bright red with cultured-looking people walking about talking in a variety of different languages, predominantly Italian. The lighting is dim and the stage is surrounded with many small tables. This place...
Ishiguro discusses Hollywood, flirts with spoilers at Seminary Co-Op
By Andrew Hammond / April 26, 2005
With his clipped accent and sincere demeanor, Kazuo Ishiguro endeared himself to an eager audience at the Seminary Co-Op last Friday. Ishiguro, acclaimed author of A Pale View of Hills and The Remains of the Day, read from his new novel Never Let Me Go and then fielded questions from the audience. There has been much written in the recent weeks concerning Ishiguro’s new novel, and there has been some controversy as to how much of the plot has been revealed in those reviews. While Ishiguro said that he does not believe the novel hinges on the supposed secret of...
Small Time Cooks – April 26, 2005
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / April 26, 2005
Maria and I were exploring with country-style cooking. Maria wanted to combine vegetarian ideas with classic recipes, and our vegetable galette was a good way to start. We put our favorite vegetables inside and out, and served the whole thing in a family-style platter. Galette/Tart Dough 1 package active dry yeast 1 teaspoon white sugar 1/2 cup warm water 1 egg 3 Tablespoons olive oil 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 3/4 cups flour, plus more as needed This is a standard recipe, one I found in Deborah Madison’s Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone. It’s a great book, filled with lots of inventive...
Queen of Romanticism Michelle DeYoung needs to expand her empire
By Manasi Vydyanath / April 26, 2005
The concert was a portrait of the exquisite importance and the excruciating fragility of specialization—Michelle DeYoung, the quintessential Wagnerian mezzo-soprano—sang Haydn, Debussy, Strauss, Mahler, and Weill in a chamber recital at Mandel Hall last Friday. The entirety of the evening can be encapsulated in the preceding sentence, for all its implications materialized unerringly. She was a fine operatic mezzo, with powerful yet supple inflections beautifully calibrated to the accompaniment of a full pit orchestra engaged in the passionate Wagnerian pathos, cantabile e fortissimo. Her lithe and dramatic vibrato was perfectly suited to the high seas of Romantic opera, but was...
Eclectic Maroon 5 bring “This Love” to Pavilion
By John Frame / April 26, 2005
With their R&B/jazz/hip-hop/reggae/blues/pop-infused eclecticism, Maroon 5 has emerged as one of the hottest bands on the music scene. Still running high off their 2002 debut album, Songs About Jane, M5 has gained more and more momentum as a group, with fans anxiously anticipating a follow-up album. The band performed Tuesday at the University of Illinois-Chicago’s Pavilion (a venue that makes Mandel Hall’s grandness look ancient) to a sold-out crowd that had an unusual mix of patrons, from the screaming 12-year-old girls to 40-year-old couples and everything in between. Opening for M5 were the Thrills. Simply put, they weren’t very good....
U of C professor spurns convention in examination of economic underbelly
By Isaac Wolf / April 26, 2005
The keystone of Steven Levitt’s new book, Freakonomics (co-written by journalist Stephen Dubner), is incentives. If you can figure out what’s motivating a real estate agent, you can find ways to determine how he is screwing homeowners. If you can figure out how sumo wrestlers cheat to advance their careers, you can pinpoint the circumstances under which they are most likely to throw a match. In example after example, Levitt picks apart conventional wisdom: that real estate agents are looking to maximize profit for homeowners, or that sumo wrestlers always try to win their matches. Levitt, an economics professor at...
Kidman shines in Pollack’s thoughtful U.N. drama
By Matt Johnston / April 26, 2005
The Interpreter is the first movie filmed inside the United Nations complex. In a beautiful shot during the opening credits, we descend upon the building, hearing snippets of dozens of languages as each speech is translated into native tongues. Though most audience members (including myself) have never actually been inside the U.N. building, these visuals carry a sense of weight. This film, despite its contrivances, feels very real at times. All the standard trappings of a Hollywood thriller are present, but they are woven more believably into a setting of modern fears, political compromises, and human foibles. It is this...
Latino film fest shows growing up is (still) hard to do
By Emerald Gao / April 22, 2005
When the lights are dimmed, those few moments between the end of the sponsor segment and the beginning of the film are akin to time travel. Indeed, Buenos Aires 100 km (Argentina, 2000) and A Costa Dos Murmúrios (Portugal, 2004) both allow the audience to do a bit of time-traveling, whether back to the cusp of adolescence or back to Mozambique in the 1960s, when the natives were fighting for independence from Portugal. Buenos Aires 100 km was preceded by a short called La Nao de China, about a man gradually going blind. He asks for a prostitute’s services at...
Angels of Light singer Gira wanders into folk darkness
By Ivan Khilko / April 22, 2005
When I got to the Angels of Light show last Saturday, I immediately ran into Michael Gira, leader of the band (and ex-singer of Swans) and introduced myself. I never got a chance to see Swans live before they broke up, and this was the first time I was going to see Angels of Light, so I was very excited. I have been listening to Swans since I was about 13 years old, so the prospect of meeting this man, let alone interviewing him, was incredibly intimidating. However, Gira did not have time to talk to me after the show...
Get a Life: April 22, 2005
By Erica Cerulo / April 22, 2005
Colby College, a private liberal arts school in Maine, started a new alcohol awareness program this year. Instead of bombarding students with statistics about alcohol abuse on college campuses, the administration invited students to the dining hall Friday night for $1 drinks paired with a meal and an education. Instead of simply condemning all alcohol consumption, the administration aims to encourage drinking responsibly by enforcing a two-drink limit and teaching students the difference between a sauvignon blanc and a pinot grigio. Unsurprisingly, the program has faced criticism. Why give college students more access to alcohol? They already drink too much!...
Voices STD: April 22, 2005
By Ilana Emmett and Matt Zakosek / April 22, 2005
Friday, April 22 Poet and professor Nikki Giovanni will be at the I-House for the Organization of Black Students’ Annual George E. Kent Lecture. (7 p.m., free, International House, Assembly Hall) Haven’t seen Tommy recently? Go to the Music Box to check out the Who’s rock opera about a boy who is deaf, dumb, and blind. Or, if you failed to watch it last week in celebration of Jenn’s birthday, relive your youth with The Goonies. (Midnight, 3733 North Southport Avenue) If you haven’t listened to Indian pop recently, tonight’s concert at UIC Pavilion with Adnan Sami, Amisha Patel, and...
With awesome shows, the Shins will be known for more than just Garden State
By Michael Rinaman / April 22, 2005
From a girl standing off to my side: “Well, like, I really only like that one song, ‘New Slang.’ You know, the one from the Garden State soundtrack?” And the reply: “Oh, don’t worry; all of the Shins’ songs sound the same anyways!” For those who came to the Congress Theatre last Thursday in order to catch a glimpse of the band that will “change your life,” the show may have been an exercise in bandwagon riding. Those who were there to see the Shins, on the other hand, were treated to a musically solid, thoroughly entertaining performance. It has...
Fan praises Gaiman but rues missed opportunities
By Paul Mantz / April 22, 2005
Comics are definitely making an impact on the world of literature these days. Last year, the university sponsored a talk with Art Spiegelman and Chris Ware, two monumental comic artists, and now Neil Gaiman has been selected as a Presidential Fellow in the Arts. However, it isn’t fair to describe Gaiman’s interests as exclusively comic-related. He is an unusually well-rounded writer who has completed a handful of novels, transcribed anime for American audiences (Princess Mononoke), and written screenplays for both big and small screens. Gretchen Helfrich was chosen to interview Gaiman, and despite showing what may have passed as good...
UT explores middle-class despair in A Doll’s House
By Carl Pickerill / April 18, 2005
The multiplicity of themes that Henrik Ibsen’s A Doll’s House provides a student director inundates even the most diffuse of theatrical commentators with meaty social commentary that attempts to get to the point of good old real life. The challenge of harnessing Ibsen’s narrative powers thus proves itself comparable to deciphering the main thesis of a Sociology B.A. There comes a point where a piece can simply be too rich and too diverse to permit enjoyment, lest a competent director be found who—by virtue of her own diffuseness, perhaps—can reel in the substantial elements of the piece. A summarizing glance...
Ratner screening allows film fans and sports lovers to relive Hoop Dreams
By Azure Gilman / April 18, 2005
It’s a testament to the power of a movie when college students are willing to spend three hours of a Thursday night on uncomfortable gym bleachers to watch it. A sizeable crowd showed up at the Hoop Dreams screening, the breakout 1994 documentary that tracks the high school basketball careers of Arthur Agee and William Gates, two Chicago teenagers from rough neighborhoods with NBA ambitions. The event was sponsored by The Order of the “C,” the Office of Minority Student Affairs, and the Center for Race, Politics and Culture. The event began with a short introduction by the filmmakers Steve...
Latino Film Festival adds global flair in second week
By Emerald Gao / April 18, 2005
You know you’re “in” when the press table ladies at Pipers Alley know your face and chuckle when you butcher all the movie titles. The Chicago Latino Film Festival is all about cross-cultural bonding, and proves it by featuring films from 18 Spanish-speaking countries, Canada, and America. The point is to show off the idiosyncracies of each country, region, or neighborhood, and two examples of this are a pair of films from urban Havana and the Quecha-speaking region of Peru. Suite Habana follows the lives of various individuals over the course of a day; it is unique in that it...
Ahmad Jamal: From artist to entertainer
By Nick Morrison / April 15, 2005
Ahmad Jamal on piano (with Iris Muhammad, drums, and James Cammack, bass) Sunday, April 10 Mandel Hall Ahmad Jamal recorded “Ahmad’s Blues” for the first time in 1951 on the record Poinciana; he was just 21 years old. The tune’s main melody enters over an easy four-four swing in quarter-note triplets—triplets that are broken into eighth-note triples—before falling seamlessly back into standard swing triplets. The effect, when you hear it (without trying to think analytically about what is going on) is one of being carried off into a gentle arrhythmic eddy for a few seconds, somewhere just beyond the flow...
In ’68, Johnny Cash held prisoners captivein a good way
By Andrew Miragliotta / April 15, 2005
In January of 1968, 2,000 inmates of a notoriously dangerous California penitentiary stood up and cheered, with one man leading the show. The man wasn’t starting a riot, but he probably could have been, considering the command he had over the mob. Instead, Johnny Cash had just uttered the line, “I shot a man in Reno just to watch him die,” bringing the prisoners of Folsom Prison to their feet to cheer on the “Folsom Prison Blues.” The electric interaction between Cash and his audience would continue from the first song to his finale of “Greystone Chapel,” a song actually...
Get a Life – 4/15/05
By Erica Cerulo / April 15, 2005
I like to people-watch. I love to sit and observe (and sometimes listen to) the characters in a place. There are so many personalities, and I am sometimes envious of Harriet the Spy, who could devote countless prepubescent hours to this game. Like Harriet, I people-watch better when I am alone. When I decided to go to Filter for a little study session on Tuesday, I was initially disappointed that I couldn’t find anyone to tag along with me. A car ride to Bucktown is the perfect opportunity for a little catching up, and, like most people I know, I...
Voices STD – 4/15/05
By Libby Pearson and Jenn Barnes / April 15, 2005
Friday, April 15 For architectural arrangements of thrown-away soda cans and other junk (seeking to pose questions about the real value of consumer goods), see “Keep It,” which will show in the Great Hall of Midway Studios today and tomorrow. “Keep It” features the work of Merry-Beth Noble, a graduating MFA student. (Midway Studios) MECHA will be throwing its Fourth Annual César Chávez Commemoration with keynote speaker Edward James Olmos, an actor and activist. Other speakers include Jesus García, executive director of the Little Village Community Development Corporation, and Juan Mora-Torres, Assistant Professor of Latin-American History at DePaul. After, music by...
Passerines slice through the smoke with sweet rock
By Nicholas Hudac / April 15, 2005
All the world is smoke. I pace around a loft, its white walls hewn out of the gray haze of fumes and conversation somewhere on the decidedly low-rent end of Milwaukee Avenue. The floorboards are spongy, giving noticeably under every booted step. I gingerly thread my way through the gathering crowd, my heavy strides clumsily avoiding the nimble, Chuck Taylored feet of various hip young things. Outside and just a few windows down, someone turns on a bodega’s window signs, the hum quavering on the warm spring air. I find a sagging couch propped sadly against the corner and gently...
Hot Hot Heat serve up Elevator music rather than remake the Breakdown
By Matt Zakosek / April 15, 2005
When my ex-roommate first heard the Hot Hot Heat song “Bandages” on the radio, he thought the line was actually “Ban the Jews.” “I thought that was kind of weird,” he said. On the strength of that single and the song “Goddamnit” (which should have been a single), Hot Hot Heat’s Make Up the Breakdown was one of the best CDs of the current garage-rock revival’80s glam-rock revivalwhatever you want to call it. Along with bands like the Killers, Franz Ferdinand, and the similarly-named Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Hot Hot Heat couldn’t have been any hotter. So does their follow-up release,...
Ahmad Jamal enlivens normally reserved jazz crowd
By Eric Benson / April 15, 2005
Jazz audiences are not usually the ecstatic sort. Even when in the presence of a legend, jazz audiences tend toward respectful appreciation rather than raucous adoration. Any musical audience’s behavior is largely dictated by the venue. Since jazz is primarily played in small clubs, practices common to other musical idioms, such as standing ovations and encores, are largely eschewed. When you’re a club owner packing three sets into a night, you can’t afford to indulge a crowd. In a concert hall however, these concerns are irrelevant. With the continuing success of programs like Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York,...
Grey’s Anatomy refuses to see the world in simple black and white
By Matt Zakosek / April 12, 2005
So who’s been watching Grey’s Anatomy? Probably a lot of people, because it comes on right after Desperate Housewives, and most of us are too lazy to get up and change the channel. But Grey’s Anatomy is a good little show in its own right—smart, funny, and touching without being too ambitious. It’s like ER, if ER had decided it wasn’t cut out for med school and starting selling medical supplies instead. Ellen Pompeo leads the cast as Dr. Meredith Grey, a first-year intern who has to endure insensitive comments about her famous surgeon mother. The one and only Patrick...
Small Time Cooks – 4/12/05
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / April 12, 2005
Maria and I were resting after a long weekend out. We both felt like a couple of rags, and we needed some food to purify our systems. Maria suggested we make some home-cooked food, and vegetables always make us feel healthy, so we decided on vegetable lasagna and a salad. We didn’t want to abandon flavor, so we spiced up our salad with a curry sauce. We let the vegetables do the talking in the lasagna, and we were able to cut down the amount of cheese we put in. These dishes serve 4. Vegetable Lasagna 1 1/2 cups of...
Stage Left Theatre keeps the love alive with Leapfest
By Ethan Stanislawski / April 12, 2005
The fact that it’s so unassuming makes it so phenomenal. In a small, musky space tucked away in Wrigleyville, the Stage Left Theatre Company is holding its second annual Leapfest, a theater festival dedicated to the development of new sociopolitical plays. And what plays they are. Since these plays are in development, there is no point in my reviewing them at this moment. Suffice to say, I was blown away by the professionalism and quality of the first play in the festival, Hiding Hannah. With a theater with less than a hundred seats, an audience consisting of mostly friends and...
Orishas’s El Kilo a solid effort, if not worth that weight in gold
By Jon Malik / April 12, 2005
It took me a little while to get into this one. El Kilo, the third installment from Cuban rap superheroes Orishas, maintains the group’s ability to create beautifully melodic hip-hop from traditional Cuban sounds, but it doesn’t have the same immediate bite as previous albums. Orishas began as the brainchild of French hip-hop producer Niko Noki (who had previously worked with the monumental Bisso na Bisso, a Paris-based group that fuses hip-hop with traditional African sounds) and Liván “Flaco-Pro,” one of Cuba’s first emcees who had relocated to Paris. The concept was to combine rap with rumba, son, and guanguaco....
Despite visuals, you can’t teach an Oldboy new tricks
By Matt Johnston / April 12, 2005
When the chips are down, thrillers succeed or fail on atmosphere. In the absence of the music, intensity, and darkness of a theater, plotlines that were once horrifying become comical and formulaic. What really happens in a thriller? (1) Things jump out of the dark. (2) People are forced to do horrible things in order to survive. (3) Bloody body parts are left lying around, often as a result of (1) and/or (2). These are dull instruments for holding my interest, so it was with great anticipation that I approached Oldboy, a stylish Korean thriller that has been bouncing around...
Bob Dylan continues to reshape his self-portrait even in seventh decade
By Jim Ryan / April 12, 2005
There are many reasons a music aficionado like myself would decide to see Bob Dylan nowadays. Many hold on to the hope that the Dylan their fathers grew up with will magically appear with all the softly spoken angst of “Blowin’ in the Wind.” Some go simply to pay tribute to the man who has become much more than a mere musician or a poet, completely without expectation of musical greatness. Some aging hippies go for nostalgia, or the hope that hearing “Rainy Day Women #12 and #35” will induce the acid flashback that just isn’t evoked by selling insurance...
Festival showcases diverse world of Latino film
By Emerald Gao / April 12, 2005
The Chicago Latino Film Festival is older than half of the University’s undergraduate population, myself included. Its 21-year history is testament to “the dreams, visions, and goals of the Latino community,” remarked International Latino Cultural Center founder and president Pepe Vargas, and if the 900-plus films screened since its inception are any indication, the commitment and passion of all who have been involved- is to be commended. The 21st Chicago Latino Film Festival kicked off on Friday night with the Opening Gala, which included consulates from all around the world, elite sponsors, and even a magician, gathered in celebration of...
Requiem for a jokester: remembering Mitch Hedberg
By Claire Mazur / April 8, 2005
The first best thing about being Volunteer Coordinator for the Major Activities Board (MAB) is getting to wear a headset and carry a clipboard during shows. The sense of power and authority is staggering. But I guess if I had to choose a runner-up perk it would be meeting the performers. Last year I complimented Margaret Cho on her Dr. Zhivago fur hat. She paused to glare at me. And then she forgot to thank me. This past winter I gave Mitch Hedberg and his wife a ride from Mandel Hall back to their downtown hotel. They remembered to thank...
Comedy duo skewer Mr. Bush, remind us of Mr. Show
By Andy Marchesseault / April 8, 2005
Competitive Awesome is comedy duo Aaron Gingrich and Mychal Utecht, and they currently dispense a tight, intelligent sketch show at Improv Olympic. Clocking in at about 45 minutes, the show, entitled The Story of Joseph King, consists of an introduction and 11 short scenes, blended together with the seams well hidden. Fans of Mr. Show, the late, great HBO comedy, will be familiar with the format, as Competitive Awesome attempts to fuse the political with the absurd, and they certainly don’t mind if you’re offended or confused by what they do. Theirs is well-intentioned comedy that falls just short of...
Get a Life – 4/8/05
By Erica Cerulo / April 8, 2005
Candace, Diana, and I stood nervously at the hotel reception desk, fidgeting with our clothes that had the smells and looks of summer. We waited for a guest to hand over his room key and sign his bill before approaching the counter. Did we look presentable? They definitely wouldn’t give us a room if we did. Deep breath. “Hi. We have an interesting question for you. We are traveling across the country with a group called Roadtrip Nation (RTN), interviewing people who have taken interesting paths in their lives. We are filming a documentary series for PBS, and we are...
Voices STD – 4/8/05
By Libby Pearson and Jenn Barnes / April 8, 2005
Friday, April 8 Irish rock band Ash stops by the Metro tonight in support of their latest release Meltdown. The Bravery is opening for ’em. (7 p.m., $14, 3730 North Clark Street) Artistic Director Charles Newell revives his 1995 production of Tom Stoppard’s Travesties, which opens tonight at the Court Theater and runs until April 24. Actors from Court’s earlier run of The Importance of Being Earnest (which wasn’t as good as UT’s version, according to Professor David Bevington and Libby) lend their art to this play-within-a-play. (8 p.m., $8, 5535 South Ellis Avenue) Saturday, April 9 Shhhh…..listen. It’s the mostly-music OBS Cultural Show,...
Brit rockers bring their Bloc Party to America but check politics at the door
By Irene Gallego / April 8, 2005
The half of the music press that’s not too busy proclaiming the Kaiser Chiefs as the “next Franz Ferdinand” are lauding the exact same accolade upon Bloc Party. Mind you, they’re wrong, for the most part, and if a British song is to be this year’s answer to “Take Me Out,” then the odds are it will be the Kaiser Chiefs’ “I Predict a Riot,” and not so much Bloc Party’s “Banquet.” Indeed, the one obvious similarity between Franz Ferdinand and Bloc Party is that they both hail from the same island (but not the same country); after that it...
Fever Pitch more harmful to game than steroids
By Isaac Wolf / April 8, 2005
There are plenty of reasons to see Fever Pitch, the film featuring a ménage à trois between Jimmy Fallon, Drew Barrymore, and the Boston Red Sox: Flattering city shots of Boston will make even die-hard Yankees fans miss the charm of Beantown; Sox fans will get to relive the joy of beating the Yankees this past fall (do they even care about winning the Series? The verdict’s still out, but my money’s on no); and Yankees fans will get a rise out of how megalomaniacal their mortal enemies are. Unfortunately, the list of reasons to see Fever Pitch does not...
Donkey Kong: Everything’s better with bongos!
By Sean Ahmed / April 5, 2005
I know, I know. Donkey Konga was the best college dorm game of last year. Everyone—male or female, hardcore gamer or technophobe, sober or inebriated—loves clapping and drumming with the bongo controllers. It’s unquestionably the most demanded game at my apartment. But now that you’ve played through all the songs that game has to offer with your two sets of bongos, what’s next? Well, aside from Donkey Konga 2, Nintendo has released an incredibly fun new music-action platformer for the Gamecube that uses the bongos in an innovative new way. Gimmick? Far from it. Using the four-button combinations available on...
Small-Time Cooks 4/5/05
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / April 5, 2005
I was feeling on top of things after running down these two crooks in a back alley. I had busted my case wide open, and my employer’s payment made it all the more worth it. I was saving up enough money to get into the cooking game full time. Maria and I spent some time in the kitchen and turned out a bean salad and some toasts to serve it on. White Bean Salad 1 can (or 1 1/2 cups cooked) white beans 1 cucumber 3 tomatoes 1 Tablespoon apple cider vinegar 1/4 cup Tablespoons balsamic vinegar 1 Tablespoon olive...
Scylla: Compicated cuisine, hold the pretension
By Ethan Frenchman / April 5, 2005
Scylla is a nymph of a restaurant—not the formidable hydra its name and recent renown would have us believe. This Bucktown newcomer has used her wiles to entrance many diners since her opening earlier this year. A seafood restaurant in an obscure part of town, Scylla is a surprise hot spot for 2005. Located in a small, two-story brick house, the atmosphere is surprisingly open and inviting. The first floor is short on room, comfortably fitting approximately 20 diners (and 15 at the bar). The illusion of spaciousness is created via sparse decorations, strategically placed mirrors, and a floor-to-ceiling window...
Isaac, Mercedes answer Tom with play of their own
By Isaac Wolf and Mercedes Gillio / April 5, 2005
Scene One: A sleepy Sunday morning in front of the Med Bakery. ISAAC: Hey Mercedes, whatcha doin’ tonight? MERCEDES: No plans. You? ISAAC: I just scored two tickets to Travesties, the new play at Court Theatre. It’s a flashback from the memory of Henry Carr, a British diplomat living in Zurich around World War I. In his memory, Carr interacts with three intellectual heavyweights who had very different views on the meaning of art. You in? MERCEDES: Uh, sounds like Hum class. But yeah, why not? Scene Two: Intermission of the play, in line to buy overpriced tea. MERCEDES: I...
Eric Bachmann waves his crooked fingers at convention
By Seth Mayer / April 5, 2005
I had to wait around all afternoon to get this interview with Crooked Fingers’ Eric Bachmann, former frontman for the ’90s indie band, Archers of Loaf. I hadn’t expected that sort of cavalier disregard for the schedules of lowly undergraduate rock critics from someone like him. This is a guy who took his show outside onto the street because a club kicked his band out for dance party night, not some prima donna rock star jerk. Turns out his tour van had gotten ripped off while the band was in Canada, throwing his tour for Crooked Fingers’ new album Dignity...
Beck’s subtle Guero signals welcome change from desolate Sea Change
By David Nagel / April 5, 2005
There was a time when Beck seemed superhuman. His late ’90s albums all appeared to be strange, disfigured creations at first glance, only to reveal profound layers of subtlety and enchanting musical inventiveness on repeated listens. They were the kind of albums you could listen to a hundred times and still appreciate. However, 2002’s Sea Change was the first crack in the armor. The songs were solid and the music exquisitely (over)produced, but for the first time Beck seemed to be as empty and desolate as the dark landscapes his lyrics evoke. You could listen to it a hundred times,...
Sin is in: Comic book yields not-so-comic adaptation
By Ted Harwood / April 5, 2005
How long can one cook an egg? Forgive the non sequitur, but it seems appropriate to begin a review of Sin City with metaphorical language. This is a big, bold film noir. Having just enjoyed Frank Miller’s graphic novels—upon which Sin City is closely based—I must admit that I am writing about this film with something less than ideal critical distance. Fanboy/girl or not, though, this film is sure to make any viewer grin with the sheer two-to-three-color vivacity of it all. I mean, shoot, when a film stars Michael Madsen alone, one is in for an exaggerated ride. And...
Mayfield ensured his Young Mod would not be Forgotten
By Ted Harwood / April 3, 2005
The Young Mods’ Forgotten Story of 1969 continues songwriter Curtis Mayfield’s focus on the sociopolitical realm, as Mayfield bookends material exploring relationships with tracks about the social situation. It is a delicious work—well crafted, funky, and featuring typically tight harmonies and Mayfield’s silky high leads. It is also a concept album (still a rarity in R & B at the time) as the opening lyrics suggest: “Let me sing a song/ I won’t make it too long/ About the Young Mods’ forgotten story.” Leaving aside the issue of what Mayfield means by “Mod” (anyone expecting the Kinks’ sound won’t find...
Stripped of inspiration, Makers fail to win back old fan
By Nicholas Hudac / April 3, 2005
I had a bad feeling about this album from the get-go. My day started innocently enough. No omens, no dire voices whispering warnings about the coming evil. Hell, the day was sunny, people were out on the quads, and I even managed to wring a cheerful greeting out of my terminally morose neighbor. Life was good, innocent, and filled with possibility. So, when I saw the new Makers album snuggled away cozily in the Maroon office, I thought I’d give it a spin, in spite of my well-publicized “No Record Reviews of Bands I Used to Like” rule. This was...
Get a Life 4/1/05
By Erica Cerulo / April 3, 2005
While I was home for a few weeks last summer, I was roped into going on a date with this kid Matt. Despite my lack of interest, he was too nice and shy for a “no.” I feel bad punishing boys who try, and I was too dumb to invent a serious (and very jealous) boyfriend. Having successfully thwarted his efforts to pick me up at my parents’ house, I waited outside the movie theater for an evening with Matt and Tom Cruise in Collateral. The expected “Who pays?” awkwardness of the ticket purchasing was paired with something I had...
Thanks to Stoneking, Theatre Building’s Hedwig is anything but a drag
By Matt Zakosek / April 3, 2005
In the spirit of sharing that Hedwig and the Angry Inch engenders, I’m going to begin this review with a story. I was going to start with a long account of how my friend Amy and I accidentally found ourselves in a sex-toy emporium on the corner of Belmont and Halsted, but then I decided that not only would this be hard to believe (although it’s the truth), I would come across as a prude, and the story would eat into my valuable word count. The point is, we were in a sex shop. And really, what better way to...
Voices STD – Stuff to Do 4/1/05
By Libby Pearson and Jenn Barnes / April 3, 2005
Friday, April 1 The Three Penny Cinema hosts the Chicago Horror Film Festival, and, dude, the original Jason (Ari Lehman) is going to be there. It started Thursday and lasts through Sunday. During tonight’s run, from 10 p.m. till 2 a.m., you can see scary features like Whatever Happened to the Zombie Killers and Zombie Honeymoon, among many others. For more information, check out the website: chicagohorrorfest.com. (Times listed on website, $25 for a 4-day pass, 2121 North Lincoln Avenue.) If zombies aren’t your thing but documentaries are, stay on campus for tonight’s kickoff of the Chicago International Documentary Film Festival. Tonight...
Alfred Brendel’s miniaturist fingers lend sophistication to classic compositions
By Manasi Vydyanath / April 3, 2005
In Critic as Artist, Oscar Wilde wrote, “The world is made by the singer for the dreamer.” Entering the world of Alfred Brendel is like looking upon the introspections of a Dickensian craftsman through a softly lit window—one sees someone who is entirely content to simply create, contemplate, and wonder in the isolation of a quaint cottage upon the English moors. Brendel’s world is wrought in marvelous miniature, where epics are played out in dollhouses, and blazing tempests and furious resurrections are recreated in the misty fragility of a snow globe. With quietly impeccable technique and exquisite perception, he wanders...
Interpol brings their Antics to the Aragon Ballroom
By Michael Rinaman / April 3, 2005
As the bright lights lowered at the Aragon Ballroom and Q and not U left the stage on Friday, the large crowd welcomed Interpol. Their set affirmed their status as a melancholy group of guys concerned with a deep, resonating alternative sound rather than the comments of critics. The four-man group—excluding the keyboardist, who is touring with music written and recorded by bassist Carlos D.—slowly walked out, grabbed their instruments, and struck the opening riff of “Next Exit,” the first song off of their sophomore and most recent album, Antics, Guitarist Daniel Kessler played through a dense fog of perfectly...
Stars scribble hearts, teach us how to play with fire on latest U.S. release
By Emerald Gao / March 8, 2005
“When there’s nothing left to burn, you have to set yourself on fire.” These are the first words spoken on Stars’ third full-length release. Set Yourself on Fire was released in Canada (the band is based in Montreal) in October of last year, and made a couple of best-of-2004 lists, but so far this eclectic band has gone relatively unnoticed here in the States, despite playing opening slots for indie staples like the Dears and Broken Social Scene, with whom singer Amy Millan and bassist Evan Cranley have collaborated in the past. Connections aside, Stars hold their own in terms...
Like Clint Eastwoodor a fine wine — Tomasz Stanko just gets better with age
By Eric Benson / March 8, 2005
Jazz is often celebrated as a quintessentially American art form, but from its very beginning, it has captivated an international audience. Throughout the years, this global audience has helped support the music during lean times, giving refuge to many a struggling jazzman. Greats like Lester Young and Bud Powell left America in the late 1950s for the more hospitable musical and racial climate of France, and many jazz musicians since then have found their biggest and most adoring audiences in places like Osaka and Montreaux, rather than New York and Chicago. Yet, jazz is by no means a one-way cultural...
Abstract art, holy music coalesce beautifully in Rockefeller Chapel
By Joel Lanceta / March 4, 2005
Imagine: In a Gothic chapel shrouded in darkness, 13 abstract paintings of the apostles hang above the audience. Coupled with the ethereality of Felix Mendelssohn’s Te Deum, a rich tapestry of music and sound was formed. Last Saturday, the Department of Music presented “In the Glorious Company of the Apostles,” a concert that celebrated and utilized the works of Swedish artist Michel Ostlund to amplify the sacredness of music. Rockefeller Chapel served as the setting for the concert performed by the University Chorus, the Motet Choir, the Rockefeller Chapel Choir, and the Women’s Chorus. Ostlund is an abstract artist whose...
Witty Kid-Simple meant for thoughtful adults only
By Ethan Stanislawski / March 4, 2005
It’s hard to write about Kid-Simple, a darkly campy pseudo-epic at the American Theater Company. It’s much easier to listen to it. That’s because the problems the play has in terms of plot, shock value, and humor, it makes up for in the phenomenal exploration of sound—in both its production and intake—that seeps through every level of the play’s structure. It is not a play in the traditional sense; in fact, Kid-Simple breaks down when viewed in that light. But as an original take on sound, it is pure theatrics at their finest—an approach that couldn’t work on radio or...
New films prove sex sells, but think twice before giving them your money
By Matt Zakosek / March 4, 2005
Oscars or porn? This was the dilemma I faced last Saturday afternoon at Landmark’s Century Centre Cinema. Did I want to see Born Into Brothels—the examination of children born in Calcutta’s red light district that would go on to win an Oscar roughly 24 hours later—or Inside Deep Throat, an insider’s look at 1972’s Deep Throat, the most profitable and infamous porno film in history? In the end, I didn’t have to make a decision. I paid for the 1:30 showing of Inside Deep Throat, saw it, then skulked around the theater until 3:30, when it was time to see...
Benjamin Bagby and band bring fresh “now” sound to medieval music
By Alexander Coppock / February 25, 2005
Last Friday, the Paris-based ensemble Sequentia treated us to the top 40 chart of 10th- and 11th-century secular European song. That might seem like a bizarre combination, but it made for an extremely well crafted and entertaining evening of music. These really were pop songs, with verse, chorus, repeat, not to mention love, deception, and shameless self-glorification. Friday’s lesson: a millennium of repetition won’t dull the ditty. Sequentia’s front man, Benjamin Bagby, knows the meaning of the word obsessive. He’s spent years reconstructing the music of a thousand years dead man whose name he does not even know. Bagby collected...
Hunter S. Thompson delivered this Catholic schoolgirl from Kentucky
By Meghan Mott / February 25, 2005
“The trunk of the car looked like a mobile police narcotics lab. We had two bags of grass, 75 pellets of mescaline, five sheets of high-powered blotter acid, a salt shaker half full of cocaine, a whole galaxy of multi-colored uppers, downers, screamers, laughers…also a quart of tequila, a quart of rum, a case of beer, a pint of raw ether and two dozen amyls. Not that we needed all that for the trip, but once you get locked into a serious drug collection, the tendency is to push it as far as you can.” Fear and Loathing in Las...
Shortcuts – LCD Soundsystem
By Seth Mayer / February 25, 2005
LCD Soundsystem LCD Soundsystem Capitol Some claim the first disc of the two-disc set from LCD Soundsystem is an album and the second disc is a singles collection. But the fact is, this band doesn’t make proper albums and probably never will. New York-based LCD Soundsystem’s self-titled double disc set is the kind of music that comes on at parties with people wearing pretentious blazers and aviator sunglasses and gets them to stop discussing art films and vinyl long enough to shake their asses. James Murphy, the man behind LCD Soundsystem, knows how to steal techniques from the heroes of...
Shortcuts – Genomic Dub Collective
By Peter Robinett / February 25, 2005
Genomic Dub Collective Origin of Species in Dub self-released Born out of a celebration of Charles Darwin and The Origin of Species, Origin of Species in Dub is an album composed of selections of Darwin’s seminal work read and sung to dub reggae music. Professor Mark Pallen of the University of Birmingham and colleagues formed the Genomic Dub Collective to create this album, which is one of the coolest names for an academic group (though maybe some would dispute their scholarly nature). Embracing the dub form, the album is unafraid to let the music come to the fore. After listening...
Shortcuts – Rx
By Peter Robinett / February 25, 2005
Rx The Party Party self-released This online album (free at www.thepartyparty.com) is a humorous set of songs that combines political vitriol with infectious dance beats. Rx combines clips of President Bush’s voice (and imitations, I assume) to create song lyrics that blast the current Bush Administration (for example, “Dick is a killer” and “I propose a plan to destroy you once and for all”). The combination of up-tempo beats and short samples from songs such as “Sympathy of the Devil” and “Walk on the Wild Side” create a fun sound, though I wouldn’t listen to this album for its music....
Get a Life – 2/25/05
By Erica Cerulo / February 25, 2005
Walking out of Japonais last Saturday, I commented to my little brother that we were leaving just as the tight-T-shirt-wearing hordes of metrosexuals were making their entrance. Entrusting their shiny cars to the valet, the latecomers talked urgently on their cell phones. The men were clad in tops meant to show off all of their hard work in the weight room. They seemed oblivious to the fact that there is such a thing as trying too hard. Must this new breed of boys wear a uniform as synthetic as their hair and skin color? At what point did guys switch...
Iron and Wine, M. Ward prove folk isn’t dead; it just needed life support
By Mehan Jayasuria / February 25, 2005
It’s funny to think that only a few years ago, critics were predicting the death of American folk music. And I mean funny in an ironic way, because such ridiculous pronouncements seem to exist for the sole purpose of being disproved. Case in point: While the oft-resurrected corpse of rock ‘n’ roll lumbers on, its distant cousin folk has returned from the edge of death, fresh-faced as a newborn babe. No, I’m not talking about “freak-folk,” the current imaginary sub-genre du jour. Rather, I’m referring to a more traditionally-oriented subset of artists who search for ways to express themselves in...
Thievery Corporation mixes jazz, electronica on most mature effort yet
By Peter Robinett / February 25, 2005
The Thievery Corporation is Washington D.C. duo Rob Garza and Eric Hilton, and they are back with even more of their infectious electronic fusion of dub, bossa nova, jazz, and other stylish sounds in their fourth album. The group is perhaps best known for their song “Lebanese Blonde” from their sophomore effort The Mirror Conspiracy, which I guarantee you’ve heard somewhere. From Sounds from the Thievery Hi-Fi, their first album, to their most recent album, The Richest Man in Babylon, the duo has created a wonderful mix of styles. Their sound has evolved from a downtempo sound with tentative forays...
Chicago Symphony Orchestra defies convention with contemporary works
By Manasi Vydyanath / February 25, 2005
It was an exquisite piece of aesthetic bookkeeping. The Chicago Symphony Orchestra (CSO) presented four works by contemporary composers, two of them world premieres, in a program that seemed more keenly aware of the beauty of classification than combination. The pieces were brilliant, eloquently symbolizing the postmodern emphasis on the unconventional opinion. If last Wednesday’s concert was a representation of the possibilities of classical music in the 21st century, the defining idiom might be called “conceptualism”—in which the primary focus of a work of art is to posit a new viewpoint, examine a new thematic angle, and tell a good...
STD – 2/25/05
By Libby Pearson and Jenn Barnes / February 25, 2005
Friday, February 25 For one night only, the Smart Museum Activities Committee curates an exhibition of student art. (5-8 p.m., Smart Museum) Float on over to the Congress Theatre to catch Modest Mouse. Dude, in high school, we never thought in a million years that Isaac Brock and the gang would be playing venues this large. Or that they’d be featured on The O.C. Granted, it would’ve been hard to have the foresight to dream up something as wonderful as Seth Cohen. The best thing is that it hasn’t seemed to change them; they’re still fantastic live. (6 p.m., $22, 2135 North...
Museum of Contemporary Art exhibit runs gamut of Universal emotions
By Stephanie Mielcarek / February 25, 2005
Passing a fire station on our way to the Museum of Contemporary Art, my boyfriend and I were nearly run over by a fire truck screeching out, sirens wailing. Coming up to the museum, we encountered what seemed to be a horrific, albeit comical, accident—a crumpled camper tilted backward, as if into a huge pothole, with a tiny car practically dangling from the trailer attachment, its front end slammed into the ground. After a moment of confusion at this disconcerting sight, we recognized it for what it was—not an accident at all, but a vacationing vehicle emerging from a sightseeing...
Orchestra, torture devices invigorate UT’s Poe
By Joel Lanceta / February 25, 2005
Tired that horror has degenerated to nothing but zombies, aliens, and psychotic serial killers with Oedipal complexes? Then visit UT this weekend, sit back, and get your psyche on edge with Edgar Allen Poe. The 19th-century writer is best known for concentrating on the evil that lurks within humanity; it’s not any external, contrived device (i.e. zombies), but the characters’ own psychological guilt that unavoidably leads to their demise. It’s the dark undercurrent of men’s souls that Poe effortlessly captured in his works, and Caitlin Doughty and her apt cast and crew translate into Poe, the latest UT production. Adapted...
Bridging their sonic extremes, Low tugs heartstrings with bombast, simmer
By Andy Marchesseault / February 22, 2005
I guess I have some explaining to do. You must have seen the information box contained within this article and wondered why this review is running now, a good 11 days after the concert. Well, the answer to your query is an easy one. Besides the fact that there was no room to squeeze this little review into an earlier issue of the Maroon, I also needed ample time to ruminate on the proceedings of two Fridays ago at the Metro. Truth is, I was lucky enough to have two of the hottest tickets in town, and I barely deserved...
Buckingham, McVie gave us Rumours worth spreading
By Shaun Cullen / February 22, 2005
I moved west this past year. Not very far west, but west enough to get me thinking West. Ever hear of Frederick Jackson Turner? In 1893, he delivered a speech out here on the Midway during the World’s Columbian Exhibition on “The Significance of the Frontier in Amerikan [sic] History.” His thesis on the role of the frontier, the Amerikan’s unrelenting drive toward the West, structured much academic and popular thought on Amerikan consciousness in the century just past. As songwriter Phil Ochs put it: “The world began in Eden and ended in Los Angeles.” He should have said Hanoi....
Court Theatre provides fitting roost for eighth blackbird’s experimentation
By Anne Ciechanowski / February 22, 2005
Seldom is a concert as pleasant as when the performers are clearly enjoying themselves, and this is exactly what attendees of eighth blackbird’s February 15 concert were treated to. The atmosphere at the Court Theatre was relaxed, ensemble members Molly Alicia Barth and Lisa Kaplan were dressed for the occasion with matching temporary tattoos, and—oh, yes—the music was fabulous. The sextet walked on stage and immediately launched into Jennifer Higdon’s Zaka (2003), an energetic and percussive piece that engaged ensemble members in conversations with one another. At times seeming to test the limits of the instruments, as when Matthew Duvall...
Small-Time Cooks 2-22-05
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / February 22, 2005
Maria and I were taking a break from the kitchen for a while. My detective work had slowed down to a crawl; I guess crime only comes out when the weather’s bad. We took advantage of the warmth to test out some restaurants and make a few simple dishes. Maria came up with a gem: an orange-glazed tofu that went great over rice and vegetables. Orange Tofu Block of firm tofu 2 Tablespoons peanut oil 1 orange 3 Tablespoons brown sugar 1 Tablespoon soy sauce Slice the tofu into quarter- to half-inch slabs and drain on paper towels. Heat up...
Professor Wiener discounts most troubled historian of all: himself
By Laura Hamilton / February 22, 2005
Jon Wiener’s book, Historians in Trouble, claims to address some serious issues in the field of historical studies. Wiener wonders why “some charges of misconduct end up on page one and bring careers to an end” while “other equally serious charges stay out of the media spotlight and bring little or no public sanction or punishment.” This is a critical issue for historians, who devote their lives to a profession that is plagued by politics, agendas, and various shades of fraud. Amazingly, and with absolutely no awareness of the irony, Wiener writes a book that precisely epitomizes the politically driven...
Staged Conversation can’t capture subtleties of film
By Andy Marchesseault / February 22, 2005
In writing a review of its theatrical adaptation, it is exceedingly difficult for me to forget that The Conversation is one of my favorite films. That said, it may have been more daunting a challenge for the Pyewacket theatre company to put Francis Ford Coppola’s 1974 masterpiece on stage. While watching the performance, I tried to view the play as separate from the film, attempting to appreciate and follow the show as if I had no previous knowledge of the movie. My problem was seemingly the same as Pyewacket’s: I just couldn’t remove myself from the inimitable original. The film...
Haydn, Boulez, and Bartók: Perspective is everything
By Manasi Vydyanath / February 18, 2005
Every story has several interpretations. One could choose to look at the story of the ant and the grasshopper from the perspective of Aesop or Somerset Maugham. The Aesopian perspective on the Chicago Symphony Orchestra concert last Friday would assert that the Haydn symphony (which opened the evening) was poorly rendered and artistically unnecessary. In the context of the luminous Boulez and whimsical Bartók that followed, it seemed suspiciously like a programming gimmick, perpetrated by a hooded and cloaked management motivated by a desire to pontificate to the masses. That line of commentary would be valid, insufferably defensible, and—frankly—rather dull....
Sean hangs with Wario and Star Fox on Nintendo’s College Media Day
By Brandon Castor / February 18, 2005
Innovation was the word of the weekend, as Nintendo demonstrated a sample of its spring line-up up at its College Media Day II in Seattle, Washington. Even though the games may sound unimpressive on paper, after getting to try them ourselves, we found that Nintendo’s recent advertising campaign is actually on-target: Touching is good. Very good. Star Fox: Assault (Gamecube, $50, released) Sean: In an effort to free up in-house development teams, Nintendo took a gamble by handing out the development of Star Fox: Assault to well respected Namco. The result—a combination of traditional on-rails flying levels and new all-range...
Curse of the Crying Heart delivers a good timewith a flying karate kick
By Luba Kontorovich / February 18, 2005
The House Theatre has the ticket this Valentine’s Day season for the happy, the bitter, and the oblivious. Its high-flying, high-kicking Curse of the Crying Heart, the second installment in the Valentine Trilogy, will knock your besotted socks off. Last year writer Nathan Allen, director Dennis Watkins, and the House ensemble wooed critics with the rockabilly Western mish-mash San Valentino and The Melancholy Kid. This year the theme is feudal Japanese epic, and Allen and Watkins play it for all it is worth—there is a ninja fight within seven minutes of the show’s start. Allen plays Sorrow, the Masked Samurai,...
Get a Life 2-18-05
By Erica Cerulo / February 18, 2005
“I think I am in love with this omelet,” my friend Caitlin confided to me over our intimate breakfast at Lula Cafe Thursday morning. If you are going to confess your love for an omelet, this one is a prime candidate for your affection. Filled with wilted rapini, garlicky brioche croutons, and herbed goat cheese, this dish is, well, a real dish. Can you really be in love with food, though? Lately, I love maraschino cherries, and my love for caramel is unconditional. This said, I don’t know that I’m in love with any particular fare. I have seen love...
Netherlands Wind Ensemble plays Mozart better than that guy in the wig
By Manasi Vydyanath / February 18, 2005
The concert was a Haydnesque variation upon Mozart, an invention based around fragmentation and bifurcation. The renowned Netherlands Wind Ensemble presented one of Mozart’s most piquant and perhaps most elusive pieces: the Gran Partita in B flat, scored for 12 winds and a double bass. The piece is structured in seven movements, and its performance last Friday was interspersed with readings from Mozart’s correspondence with his father during the period of its composition. The conception was novel. The ensemble would play a movement, the narrator would don a wig and read one of Mozart’s letters, the Ensemble would perform another...
AIDS photo exhibit brings new light, if not catharsis, to sensitive subject
By Ethan Stanislawski / February 18, 2005
The AIDS pandemic is such a multifaceted issue that it’s virtually impossible to break down into its most human elements. When the issue is viewed in terms of politics, public health, human rights, socioeconomic status, and discrimination, it can become quite easy to lose sight of the fact that—at its most basic level—AIDS is something deeply personal that affects individual lives. That is the goal of the Chicago Cultural Center’s Pandemic: Imaging AIDS, a photography exhibit running through April 3. It’s a very high goal to set, one that’s a little too ambitious for what the exhibit actually accomplishes. The...
Ex-Replacement Stinson treats Double Door to songs from the heart, the bar
By Charles Lyford / February 18, 2005
This is my first quarter at the U of C as a 21 year old. Thank you. Bouncers up here think my Arkansas ID is fake, which means I’ve missed out on the club scene so far. I had also never heard Tommy Stinson before I went to review his show at the Double Door, so I was doubly expectant when I stepped off the Blue Line and made my way to the club last Thursday. Let me say, for those of you who haven’t made it to the Double Door, this is a medium-sized club with plenty of $3.50...
Motian’s trio builds Room with innovation, not rust
By Eric Benson / February 18, 2005
Paul Motian, Bill Frisell, and Joe Lovano are three of the most intriguingly adventurous players on today’s jazz scene. All of them have crafted careers based on their versatility, moving between projects that span from artful swing to avant-garde to electric music. Each man is revered in his own right, but their collaborative trio is a special entity. The trio recorded consistently in the late ’80s and early ’90s, producing a number of stellar albums dedicated to the music of Thelonious Monk, Bill Evans, and Broadway, but it has effectively ceased being a touring group, save for an annual two-week...
U of C Folk Festival notable for its rich history, passionate performances
By Peter Robinett / February 15, 2005
Last weekend saw the 45th annual University of Chicago Folk Festival, which is composed of three shows—Friday, Saturday, and Sunday night in Mandel Hall—and a series of workshops, dances, and jam sessions throughout the day on Saturday and Sunday in Ida Noyes Hall. The festival has not changed dramatically since its 1961 inception by the Folklore Society, the registered student organization that still organizes it. The format of the festival is well established, and many of the participants have been coming year after year. Professor Starkey Duncan was present at the original festival and has been faculty advisor to the...
Masterpieces in the past, dogged press in the present, Band partied to stay sane
By Andrew Marchesseault / February 15, 2005
Some have called the Band’s third album a “party record.” Well, if these are party songs, they’re much more Prince than Pink, more “party overout of time” than “get this party started.” Listeners to Stage Fright may not be dancing with one eye on the apocalypse-countdown clock à la “1999,” but there certainly is something on everyone’s mind at this fete. Rocking out to heed off the anxiety, the Band lets go while tensing up. Stage Fright, released in the late summer of 1970, catches the Band in limbo, caught in a moment of self-consciousness that may have ultimately led...
22 Restaurant and Bar rates three stars
By Ethan Frenchman / February 15, 2005
I suppose few people are bold (or stupid) enough to arrange an Assyrian winged man-bull opposite a painting of a naked showgirl. Yet they are arranged just so in 22 Restaurant and Bar Moderne, a recently reworked contemporary American restaurant in River North. The decorating faux pas is smoothed over by the comforts of a contemporary American restaurant, however. Industrial lighting, dark colors, minimalist furniture, square plates, and an LED-lit bar are all predictably deployed. The cuisine is analogous to the décor. 22 Restaurant and Bar Moderne attempts to be exotic without truly risking experimentation. The dishes offer up familiar...
Brashares shares divine secrets of her Sisterhood with teens, one grown guy
By Matt Zakosek / February 15, 2005
There are very few events that will inspire me to travel back to my hometown. One of them is a friend’s wedding. Another is a book signing by Ann Brashares, the nationally bestselling author whose series for young adults, The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, has a rabid fan base among more college students than would probably care to admit it. Brashares spoke at Anderson’s Bookshop in Naperville, an inscrutable choice. If I were embarking on a 10-city book tour to promote my beloved book series, I’d definitely make the publisher (in this case, Random House) put me up in...
Same Mother bears two sides of the same soul
By Eric Benson / February 15, 2005
If one were to study the tastes of jazz critics across the country and then attempt to use that information to create the ideal musician, that musician would probably be a lot like pianist Jason Moran. Moran has reached a point in his young career where laudatory reviews from the mainstream and jazz press are a foregone conclusion. He just seems to do everything right. He reveres nearly-forgotten greats like Jaki Byard, Mal Waldron and Sam Rivers, providing them with fresh notoriety and accolades. He celebrates the new, improvising over spoken word tracks, covering artists from Björk to Afrika Bambaataa,...
Hedberg brings shoegazing, one-liners to Mandel
By Emerald Gao / February 15, 2005
The first 47 minutes of Mitch Hedberg’s set at Mandel Hall on Sunday night nearly put me to sleep. Not because the comedy was bad, but because the eccentric comedian hadn’t even taken the stage yet. Even with this lengthy delay (the announcement of which was met with heckling from the audience), his performance was short and sweet, lasting about the same amount of time as I spent staring at a stool and red curtains. One of the first things Hedberg said (after taking the stage to wild applause from his cult-like fan base) was, “I’m like a clown right...
Get a Life 2-11-05
By Erica Cerulo / February 11, 2005
Hallmark possesses an amazing power of manipulation. Through a rack of greeting cards, it can transform the average Monday into a day worthy of candy, celebration, and—most importantly—cards. A prime example of this “Hallmark effect” is the installment of October’s newest holiday, Sweetest Day—a holiday seemingly no different from the flowers-and-chocolate February celebration that is upon us. But who can blame Hallmark for using its vast power to increase profits during the greeting card lull of mid-October-, especially when the company is also promoting love and affection in one fell swoop? Living in a world of Hallmark holidays where you...
Bachelorette Shefft is the Girl Next Doorif you live next door to Hades
By Amanda Tice / February 11, 2005
This season’s Bachelorette has been full of surprises, with contestants passing out, crying, and playing full-contact shirts-vs.-skins basketball. Not only have the episodes been more shocking than ever before, but the men have been crazier. Twenty-eight-year-old Jen Schefft (quite possibly one of the luckiest women in the world) has had the opportunity to sift through 25 eligible bachelors over the past few weeks. Not only does she get the keys to a plush Manhattan pad and a second chance at reality-TV love—after dating, then dumping Bachelor Andrew Firestone—she also gets to surround herself with a bevy of sexy men all...
Steppenwolf’s Intimate Apparel triumphs Wilde-ly with style over substance
By Eric Park / February 11, 2005
I was reminded of Oscar Wilde after watching the production of Intimate Apparel at the Steppenwolf Theatre. He once declared that it is only shallow people who refuse to judge by appearances; the world of visibility is far more intriguing than what is cloaked underneath. How easy, I thought initially, to judge simply by the looks. Then I was convinced. Lynn Nottage’s play is about a black spinster named Esther, a turn-of-the-century seamstress skilled in her labor but weary in her failings to find a marriageable man. This is the premise of at least as many romantic novels and films...
A bone to pick with stilted classicists, our writer pens an open letter to the CSO
By Alexander Coppock / February 11, 2005
To the Management and Musicians of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra: I have noticed that for the past month, the programming at Orchestra Hall has been directed to some specific end, and I feel as though that purpose has not exclusively been great music-making. The pieces do not seem to have been selected purely for their merits as “music you love.” It is not my foremost desire to make accusations, but the repertoire is wide, so let us ask a gentler question: What’s behind your bills? An artistic planning meeting at your internationally lauded organization almost certainly comes down to ideology....
STD (Stuff to Do) 2-11-05
By Libby Pearson / February 11, 2005
Friday, February 11 Tonight is the opening night of Chicago Critical Mass’s eighth annual art show. If you’re one of those people who wants to smash the window of a car when its driver thinks it’s A-OK to slide through stop signs and/or crosswalks, you should head over to HighSchool to check out bike and anti-car artwork. (6 to 11 p.m., 1542 North Milwaukee Avenue) University Theater presents A Smoky Morning, an original piece by Jessica Wright, directed by Chris Wand. (8 p.m., $5, Francis X. Kinahan Third Floor Theater) The Netherlands Wind Ensemble will perform a program entitled Mail from Mozart....
Behind the scenes of new exhibit, our reviewer gets Smart to the art of the print
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / February 11, 2005
Walking into the Smart Museum’s opening for Paper Museums: The Reproductive Print in Europe, 1500-1800 last Thursday was like stepping into another world. The new exhibit seeks to reassess the functional and aesthetic value of prints that copied existing paintings, sculptures, and sometimes other prints. During my time on campus, I’ve toured the Smart’s galleries as part of classes, with out-of-city visitors, and on a whim when the Chicago days were cold and the exhibition titles sound especially interesting. But this was my first time at an opening as press. When I approached the museum’s front desk to ask about...
Folk Festival a success, but students in short supply
By Peter Robinett / February 11, 2005
As part of the 45th Annual University of Chicago Folk Festival, three concerts of folk music were held in Mandel Hall on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday evenings. Both Friday and Sunday night were composed of three acts, followed by an intermission and two final acts. Saturday’s concert had four performances before the intermission. Every return from intermission commenced with a bagpipe player making a tour of the auditorium. A word about the audience: Friday night was reasonably well attended, with what looked like—at quick glance—half the seats taken. It’s worth noting, though, that I felt like I was the youngest...
Shortcut – Plain White T’s
By Matt Zakosek / February 4, 2005
Fans of generic pop-punk will find plenty to embrace in All That We Needed, the latest CD from Chicago boys the Plain White T’s. The disc begins promisingly enough with the title song, then works its way through 12 catchy—if forgettable—similar-sounding tracks. The only exception is “What More Do You Want?,” which has a riff weirdly reminiscent of Michael Jackson’s “Beat It.” (The King of Pop could probably sue, but he’s spent enough time in courtrooms this year already.) A few stand-outs are “Breakdown” and “Lazy Day Afternoon,” but even they are marred by unmemorable lyrics. The publicist for the...
Shortcut – Mia Doi Todd
By Charles Lyford / February 4, 2005
ecause it sounds like she has bravely overcome the flu on her drive over to the studio. I was unfamiliar with this lady before I listened to Manzanita, her third album, so I was intrigued by her vocals when they floated into the mix of the opening track. Nonetheless, I still feel like the producer ran out of Kleenex the day before recording. I also feel that if you’re going to sing bits like “We all know they’ve got it fixed in politico-economics…public confidence is shaken,” you should be doing something entertaining at the same time. Iggy Pop used to...
Authenticity and fragility pervade Hypocrites’ production of Williams classic
By Jim Ryan / February 4, 2005
The Athenaeum Theater’s Studio 2 provided an appropriately delicate setting for the Hypocrites’ production of Tennessee Williams’s tension-wrought drama, The Glass Menagerie. The set adequately fit the small black box studio and Williams’s intricate description. Yet the production crew seemed to feel no restraint at all, using an eloquently projected backdrop to highlight key lines. The crew also offered an interesting piece by e.e. cummings as a prelude to Part II. By using the playwright’s original stage directions, the company was able to give the audience perspective on the author’s intentions. Down to the Lucky Strikes smoked on stage, the...
Randel & Co. color the Great White Way maroon
By Terry Hollandaise / February 4, 2005
It’s a gangster story. It’s a romance. No, it’s actually a musical whose score is almost exclusively to the tune of “La Cucaracha.” While it isn’t going to win any Tony awards any time soon, last Saturday’s “Revels ’05” showcased the University’s finest thespians—and reminded campus why Broadway is a thousand miles away. The show integrated an aura of small-town adult community theater with understated University pride and self-flagellation. The play, written by Andy Austin and Ted Cohen, begins in Pumpkin Creek, where young Emily decides she wants to go to the University of Chicago. But father and Aunt Em—dressed...
Get a Life 2-4-05
By Erica Cerulo / February 4, 2005
Despite the fact that I just turned 22, I’m not sure how far I’ve progressed since I was six. On Christmas morning, I ripped the wrapping off of my gift-of-the-year (an iPod, obviously) but tossed it aside to open the toy my mom had so thoughtfully chosen for me: a Barbie. I consistently buy my guy friends gifts intended for second graders. But I don’t bother going to Toys R Us, because those toys are too complicated and educational. When picking up their foam disc-shooting laser-gun thingy or cap gun at Walgreens, I have to make sure to buy plenty...
Quartet-in-residence again awes the Mandel faithful
By Malkah Bressler / February 4, 2005
It was a truly beautiful concert. The Pacifica Quartet constructed a program that complemented their skill in terms of both breadth and expression. They began with Schubert’s early String Quartet in E-flat Major, D.87, and then launched into the 20th century with Janácek’s String Quartet No. 2, “Intimate Letters.” After the ensemble’s pastoral and euphonious adaptation of Schubert’s stately chaos, the Janácek came as a huge stylistic shift. Their near technical mastery of the jarring, atonal Janácek was formidable, but could not completely bridge the stylistic chasm between the two pieces and composers. It was nearly impossible to understand the...
STD (Stuff to Do) 2-4-05
By Libby Pearson / February 4, 2005
Friday, February 4 Simon Singh, author of The Big Bang: The Origins of the Universe, will be hanging out on campus today. (4 p.m., Ida Noyes Hall) The 45th Annual University of Chicago Folk Festival starts tonight at 8 p.m., with Creole ensemble the Ed Poullard Trio, bluegrass ensemble the Flint River Boys, gospel gurus Geraldine Gay and pastor Donald Gay, fiddler Fred Stoneking, and Irish fiddlers John Daly and Cleek Schrey (who actually went to high school with Libby). Workshops, dances, and jam sessions will take over Ida Noyes during the day on Saturday and Sunday. Evening concerts tonight, Saturday night,...
Scalzi: From the U of C to a galaxy far, far away
By Laura Hamilton / February 4, 2005
Not only is John Scalzi a University of Chicago alum (AB ’91), he is a former Editor in Chief of the Maroon. He is also a distant relative of John Wilkes Booth. His first novel does not disappoint. Old Man’s War is a delightfully imaginative and unpredictable tale of septuagenarian John Perry’s first two years in an extraterrestrial military. Perry volunteers to join the mysterious Colonial Defense Forces on his 75th birthday, leaving behind everything he knows on Earth for a ride into outer space on a large geosynchronous beanstalk. Old Man’s War is an exciting read. Scalzi has an...
Rambling and flat, this family turmoil doesn’t amount to a handful of cherries
By Nora Hanna / February 4, 2005
Family drama can come in more forms than your daily dose of Jerry Springer. Broken hearts, shattered dreams, and money troubles are all fairly represented in Anton Chekhov’s The Cherry Orchard, now playing at Steppenwolf Theatre. The first act opens with two huddled figures in the dark, one strumming the guitar and the other reading/sleeping by gaslight. The lone strain of the guitar will be a constant theme throughout the performance. In a moment, the stillness of the scene is disturbed by the chaos of an arriving train, a ticking clock, and a dog barking. The characters alternately welcome each...
Edleman provides haven for circus freaks, lovers
By Stephanie Mielcarek / February 1, 2005
In 1997, Elizabeth Ernst gave up a successful advertising career to follow the circus. The aspiring artist visited and photographed various carnivals throughout the Midwest, Coney Island, and even the circus museum in Baraboo, Wisconsin. She also photographed old, used, and weathered toys, focusing on issues of aging, identity, and beauty. For The G.E. Circus, Ernst created her own circus, complete with a cast of more than 25 characters—each of whom has a body molded of Sculpey (an artists’ modeling compound) and a twisted, gray life story to match. Walking into the Edelman Gallery, I found a tabletop full of...
Pianist Uchida celebrates Boulez’s birthday with Orchestra Hall performance
By Jeremy Rosenberg / February 1, 2005
Before Mitsuko Uchida unassumingly took to the stage last Sunday afternoon, the piano stood alone in the center of the stage at Orchestra Hall with nothing but emptiness for company. Though a full grand, it seemed baby-like, dwarfed by its surroundings—hardly the setting for an intimate recital. So Uchida aimed for the opposite effect and gave an orchestral concert, or so it would seem from the program. The three works she presented are perhaps the most orchestral a selection can be without being categorized as such. The first was Pierre Boulez’s Notations, a collection of his earliest compositions in the...
Ferdinand Fox breezes through the Winds Café with sonic sweetness
By David Miller / February 1, 2005
A recent Sunday venture to Logan Square on the city’s north side was well worth the effort. The Winds Café (2657 North Kedzie) hosted local band Ferdinand Fox for an hour and a half of musical entertainment. Everything came together that night for the Fox. An energized audience and band connected, new songs debuted. It was an epic event. Nick Davio (vocal/keyboard), Rich Clark (guitar), Charles Malave (bass/vocal), Zack Novick (drums), and Van Glover (vocal/auxiliary everything) are an adventurous group. Ferdinand Fox draws from rock, blues, funk, and even bluegrass to create a sound all their own. Their program keeps...
Small-Time Cooks 2-1-05
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / February 1, 2005
At the recent International Food Festival, the J-Club hosted its annual Iron Chef competition. The Iron Chef, Joshua Schwartz, and his challenger, Stella Huang, battled it out using the secret ingredient, onion. The Iron Chef prevailed, but both teams created outstanding dishes. The Small Time Cooks are happy to feature their recipes. Josh Schwartz’s recipes Four onion salads Salad 1—Arugula with crisped onion in vanilla vinaigrette 1/2 cup arugula 1/2 white onion, cut into very thin strips 1 cup vegetable oil 1 Tablespoon olive oil 1 teaspoon rice vinegar 1/4 vanilla bean salt to taste Heat the vegetable oil on...
Townes Van Zanst sets a troubled life to music
By Brad Heffern / February 1, 2005
If you’re not familiar with Townes Van Zandt, let me catch you up. Often considered the best singer-songwriter to come out of Texas, Van Zandt’s material has been covered by the veritable royalty of country and folk music—from Emmylou Harris to Merle Haggard to Bob Dylan. Before Van Zandt’s death in 1997, that other Texas songwriter, Steve Earle, proclaimed, “Townes Van Zandt is the best songwriter aliveand I’ll stand on Bob Dylan’s coffee table in my cowboy boots and say that.” However, the problem with Townes Van Zandt—and what likely kept him from becoming an absolute superstar—is that he never...
The Aviator soars, Sideways sneaks in, and Ray is woth a Million Dollars in Oscar nomimations
By John Frame / January 28, 2005
It’s no surprise that Martin Scorsese’s Howard Hughes biopic, The Aviator, took the Academy Award nominations by storm on Tuesday, with 11 total nominations. Quite simply, this made sense. But what could be seen as a repeat of last year’s Lord of the Rings: Return of the King record setting run (11 nominations, 11 wins) is in actuality not so crystal clear this year. Just when Scorsese felt he had a lock on the two major awards, Best Picture and Director (the latter of which has eluded him four previous times), out of the blue comes what Roger Ebert calls...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Libby Pearson / January 28, 2005
Friday, January 28 Thank God someone found a way to film Britney Spears that isn’t Crossroads. That’s right—University of Chicago Cinema and Media Studies professor and filmmaker Judy Hoffman followed our pal Britney during the Dream Within a Dream Tour. What results is ‘Stages’—Three Days in Mexico. (7 p.m., International House, Coulter Room) Come to Campus Gym Night, another ridiculously wholesome weekend evening event sponsored by Noctis Sero. Kickboxing, Pilates, dodgeball, inner tube water polo, Dance Dance Revolution, and swimming are scheduled throughout the night. Free water bottle to the first 200 attendees. Our plea to the people spending the Noctis Sero...
After the Blizzard, Pacifica and blackbird that Court
By Samuel A. Smith / January 28, 2005
While the weekend’s blizzard had largely subsided by the Sunday afternoon opening of Contempo’s “Chicago Accent” program of contemporary chamber music, heavy coats nonetheless filled the racks of the University of Chicago’s Court Theatre. Braving bitter winds and unplowed streets, an eager crowd turned out for an assortment of music ranging from 1930s modernism to the Chicago premiere of Kotoka Suzuki’s Slipstream and the world premiere of John Austin’s Celebrations. Despite a great variety of performers, instruments, and styles, the afternoon’s five pieces combined to offer the audience a strange and challenging, yet ultimately satisfying afternoon of music. Headlining the...
Get a Life 1-28-05
By Erica Cerulo / January 28, 2005
Let me set the scene. Rolling tumbleweed. Clouds of dust. The soundtrack to Rawhide. This is exactly what came to mind when I walked into the Palace Restaurant and Saloon on “Whiskey Row” in Prescott, Arizona last July. Although my saloon stereotypes were certainly exaggerated, the story behind the place—which used to be a haunt of Doc Holiday and the Earp brothers—supported the mood I had created in my mind. Apparently, in 1900, a drunken miner knocked over a kerosene lantern, starting a fire that burned down 11 Prescott blocks. What did the Palace patrons do in the midst of...
O’Riley and the Miró Quartet: “We Agree!”
By Manasi Vydyanath / January 28, 2005
The concert last Friday at Mandel Hall was an eloquent portrayal of the sheer importance of artistic dissent. Christopher O’Riley and three members of the Miró quartet (violinist Sandy Yamamoto was unable to perform, due to illness) began the evening in such consumate technical and aesthetic concurrence that they transformed expressive accord into interpretive homogeneity. They commenced with Mozart’s piano quintet in E flat, a piece reminiscent of the Perdita in A Winter’s Tale; a captivating little vignette that intersperses bursts of passionate lyricism and tempests with charming arguments and brilliant sallies. The emphasis of the work is upon the...
Shortcut – Low
By Andy Marchesseault / January 28, 2005
Although it may not be representative of their previous recorded output, my first impression of the band Low is one of enchantment. Like the veteran trio from Duluth, Minnesota, their new album The Great Destroyer is complex and can be appreciated in both its sum and for its constituent parts. On their seventh LP and first for Sub Pop, the torch-bearers of “slowcore” meld that genre’s delicate heaviness with Beach-Boys inflections, melancholic and bitter rock missives, and keyboard and electronic flourishes provided by producer Dave Fridmann. This diversity is thrown into greater relief when listening to the vocal harmonies of...
Shortcut – The Game
By Charles Lyford / January 28, 2005
Back in the day—and I mean before I was in junior high, like ’95, ’96—the West Coast was the man. Death Row was the only label worth recording for, and the city of L.A. was at the top of the pyramid. “All Eyez on Me,” remember? 2Pac said that, and though he died first, Biggie Smalls had to go to Los Angeles to become an East Coast martyr. A lot of energy in the hip-hop media after these assassinations went to downplaying the East-West rivalry, and sure enough, in a few years the Southern scene exploded from Atlanta, and New...
Shortcut – Archer Prewitt
By Andy Marchesseault / January 28, 2005
Archer Prewitt is a pop musician in the great tradition of the singer-songwriter. As with Low, this is my introduction to Prewitt, and I am struck by the confidence in his craftsmanship, which is evident in his unconventional song structures as well as in his innovative sonic touches. Like Low, Prewitt presents himself as a veteran artist unafraid to augment what already works. Born and raised in Frankfort, Kentucky, Prewitt has been a mainstay on the Chicago music scene since leaving art school in Kansas City. Having arrived in 1991with his kitsch-pop band, the Coctails, in the intervening years Prewitt...
Shortcut – Bonnie “Prince Billy and Matt Sweeney
By Sam Henry / January 28, 2005
On the latest release from Will Oldham under the Bonnie “Prince” Billy moniker, we find him returning to his rockier, Palace side through the influence of former Chavez/Zwan singer-guitarist, Matt Sweeney. As tends to be the case with Will Oldham, this album is definitely the product of his own creativity and he remains at the helm throughout, despite the collaboration. The influence of Sweeney, though ever-present, does not steer Oldham off of his familiar and heavily beaten path of Southern crooning. Rather, Sweeney adds a great backbone of electric guitar to Oldham’s own sound. The album is livelier than Billy’s...
Shortcut – …And You Will Know Us By the Trail of Dead
By Andy Marchesseault / January 28, 2005
Remember 2002? We were first-years; you sat next to me in math class. No? Anyway, it was a great year for music, and one of its best releases was the major-label debut of a little quartet from Austin, Texas. On Source Tags & Codes, And You Will Know Us By the Trail of Dead corralled the manic energy of their first two albums to create something bold and delicate, bombastic and reverential, cohesive and disparate. It was indie rock at full throttle, with emotions bleeding through churning guitars and varied time signatures. It was utterly pretentious and immodest and I...
Shortcut – John Shirley
By Charles Lyford / January 28, 2005
You see an album from an alumnus of U of C who graduated with a Ph.D. in Composition. You buy it because you are feeling generous and because the composer is pictured, Kill Bill- style, with a kimono and sword (this picture, by the way, should be on the front cover and not the back). You notice that all but three of the tracks are longer than six minutes, and you wonder what songs like “Quintet for Strings & Computer” and “G-VRAN” will sound like. As it turns out, they sound a lot like what a U of C grad...
Shortcut – Chemical Brothers
By Andy Marchesseault / January 28, 2005
I’ve never been one for most dance/techno/electronic music, but I’ve always liked the Chemical Brothers. The eighth-grade version of me was neither sucking on pacifiers nor tripping on E, but yet I immediately took to “Block Rockin’ Beats” when I first heard it on the local alternative station. Looking back, it seems a fitting transition: The stellar electronic-rock fusion of Dig Your Own Hole bridged my tastes of middle school with those of high school. The album was dark and exhilarating, and foretold dangerous adolescent adventures. Although my time at prep school was pretty hard and a lot of fun,...
Shortcut – Ani DiFranco
By Loretta Nuccio / January 25, 2005
After putting out 15 full-length studio albums in just as many years, one might expect a considerable amount of exhaustion to come from an artist's music. However, fans of indie/rock/folk/feminist/activist/radical Ani DiFranco have no cause to worry, as shown by her most recent release, Knuckle Down. It is every bit another DiFranco record, encompassing a wide range of musical genres from acoustic folk and country to funk. Though the record displays the usual plucky, catchy guitars, it also shows some musical experimentation. DiFranco invited other artists to play violin, piano, and even to whistle on some tracks. To further diversify...
Curious about celebrity fragrances? They reek
By Amanda Tice / January 25, 2005
Let’s face it. Most celebrities stink—literally. Celebrity fragrance lines are giving longtime leaders such as Escada, Versace, and Lancôme a run for their money. Some celebs create their own lines, while others join the advertising campaigns of established designers. These Hollywood stars realize that they are name brands, and with the right marketing, they can be infinitely successful. Who wouldn’t want to stick their name on a product and collect revenue for doing absolutely nothing? Currently, Britney Spears, Paris Hilton, Beyoncé, Jessica Simpson, J. Lo, Celine Dion, and Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen are among the women who have ventured into...
Small Time Cooks 1-25-05
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / January 25, 2005
The snow was coming down as bad as I’d ever seen, but this was a day I wanted to be outside. I was going to meet Maria downtown to try this hot new vegetarian joint she was all excited about. They blended Spanish and Italian cuisine, and it was as good as the hype suggested. Maria and I were still trying our Iron Chef recipes, and we wanted to try some Italian recipes with a Spanish kick. We chose spinach as our ingredient and went to town with a frittata and spinach pesto. These dishes serve 3-4. Spinach Frittata with...
Shortcuts – Jeff Parker
By Eric Benson / January 25, 2005
Over the past ten years, Chicago-based guitarist Jeff Parker has worked with artists from disparate sectors of the jazz world, moving between the mainstream and the avant-garde and fusion fringes. The breadth of his work as a sideman is audible on The Relatives, his second solo album and Thrill Jockey debut. The Relatives is an engaging pastiche of styles that feels frustratingly incomplete despite its accomplished musicianship. On the opening track, “Istanbul,” Parker’s deft single-line improvisations are layered over a rich but repetitive beat, creating a languid tone that never strays far from its initial motif. Much of The Relatives...
Despite delusions of grandeur, Razorlight can rock
By Irene Gallego / January 25, 2005
Johnny Borrell, frontman of the British band Razorlight, has a bit of a reputation for being an arrogant prat. He is, after all, the man who told the press that his debut album was better than Dylan’s debutbefore sitting down to write most of the songs in it, of course. We could discuss the relative merits of Razorlight’s Up All Night and Dylan’s first record for a while, I suppose, but, having never seen Dylan perform live, I think that’s where the comparisons will have to end. The fact remains that Razorlight is one of the myriad good, new bands...
Darkness beats Born to Run as the best of the Boss
By Andrew Miragliotta / January 25, 2005
Contrary to what many New Jerseyans think, Bruce Springsteen’s Born to Run is not the best rock album of all time. While it is almost a masterpiece and a veritable greatest hits album in its own right, it comes across as excessive. It’s even harder to consider it the greatest of all time when it might not even be the best in the Boss’s catalog. The Garden State Gods are already clamoring, but as sacrilegious as it may be to say this, Darkness on the Edge of Town is better than Born to Run. Sure, Born to Run was Bruce’s...
Neo-Futurists’ ode to alcohol may kill your buzz
By Libby Pearson / January 25, 2005
I’m drunk, and I’m writing. And now that I’ve seen the Neo-Futurists’ Drinking and Writing Volume II: The Noble Experiment, I know that I’m part of a long, hallowed tradition shared by the likes of Sinclair Lewis, Jack London, and Edna St. Vincent Millay. If I continue this behavior, my children will be affected for the worse and will tell quietly disturbing stories about me in Chicago bars. You know what? I hate plays. But this isn’t a play—it’s an “environmental docudrama” done by people who normally put on plays. They’re called actors. One of them works at UT, and...
Pining for Rome: Ottorino Respighi, Mussolini, and the doctrine of fascism
By Carmel Raz / January 25, 2005
Fascism, according to a 1932 Italian encyclopedia, is “the doctrine best adapted to represent the tendencies and the aspirations of a people, like the people of Italy, who are rising again after many centuries of abasement and foreign servitude.” This entry, co-authored by Benito Mussolini and his ghostwriter, Giovanni Gentile, reflects the cultural atmosphere of Italy throughout the ‘‘ ‘ ‘20s and 30s, in which veneration of the past, specifically the Roman Empire, was practically a state-sponsored cult. Perhaps it is only natural that after the fall of fascism, Italian audiences became wary of art celebrating the glory of Rome....
Christopher O’Riley: Renaissance man or dilettante?
By David Bashwiner / January 25, 2005
Christopher O’Riley bills himself as a musical Renaissance man. I find this slightly immodest. Let’s look at his résumé. He was trained as a classical pianist at the New England Conservatory. Then he flirted with jazz, became an “expert” on tango, and now he hosts a radio show and writes solo piano arrangements of songs by Radiohead and Elliott Smith. I’m sure there are a lot of people in the world like this. They grow up thinking they like one thing, and then they decide that they like something else better. They can’t go to school to study Radiohead, so...
Third time not the charm for Brashares’ Pants
By Matt Zakosek / January 25, 2005
Now that Sex and the City has drained its last cosmopolitan, where can fans of smart, savvy entertainment go for their fix of stories about the trials and tribulations of four girlfriends? Why, to the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series, of course! Don’t let the young adult trappings fool you. These novels can be enjoyed by readers of all ages. (Although if you’re looking for the ribaldry of the aforementioned HBO series, you’re out of luck.) Ann Brashares’s latest entry in the series arrives with much fanfare, with news of a Sisterhood movie arriving this summer, a 10-city book...
Near self-parody, Oberst sprinkles Ash with too much tech, not enough soul
By Brad Heffern / January 25, 2005
When musical posterity looks back upon today (if it does at all), it will surely remember the release of two Bright Eyes albums, one terrific, one merely good. The terrific one, I’m Wide Awake, It’s Morning, will surely overshadow its evil twin, a dense, claustrophobic album seemingly produced by malevolent robots in some dank cave. Since Bright Eyes mastermind Conor Oberst was given the opportunity to release two albums simultaneously, he chose to make one album of user-friendly songs, undoubtedly destined for popularity, all the while pooling his more risky material for Digital Ash in a Digital Urn. As always,...
Morning of a new era: Oberst awakens new classic
By Mehan Jayasuria / January 25, 2005
Conor Oberst is a victim. My perception of this is probably colored by the fact that he’s spent the last 10 years or so articulating his victimization at the hands of the world onstage as Bright Eyes. But that’s not what I’m talking about. Rather, Oberst is the victim of an overactive, hype-driven rock press. While his increasingly skillful songwriting has always shown tremendous promise, comparisons to the likes of Dylan and Gram Parsons came before he even had the chops to back them up. The ensuing backlash has caused Bright Eyes to fall out of favor with many in...
Shortcut – Lemon Jelly’s ’64-’95
By Isaac Wolf / January 21, 2005
If you’re looking to replicate the soundtrack of Gap, Banana Republic, and the rest of the chain department stores, then Lemon Jelly’s new album has your name on it. The metronomic rhythms of their third album, ’64-’95, have a distinctly clean, pulsating sound, with the two English DJs layering fresh beats, guitar cycles, and one-line lyrics that were first heard on songs made between 1964 and 1995. While the samples Lemon Jelly use as the basis for their beats are eclectic, the cumulative effect is a sound that has little traction; it’s terribly difficult to grab hold of the music...
From “Way” to Grey: two decades of genre remixing
By Joshua Steinman / January 21, 2005
If you watch the music video for the remixed “Walk This Way,” there’s something amazing in Steven Tyler’s face when two vaguely thuggish rappers break through the wall and onto Tyler’s stage. Something in his eyes flickers with an awareness. His look is one not only of offense—his song was being hijacked, after all—but also of respect. Like it or not, hip-hop (and more specifically, Run-DMC) had arrived, wearing sweat suits, black hats, and Adidas sneakers. And although the remix of “Walk This Way” was more a tag-team wrestling match than a duet, it featured two Goliaths taking turns on...
Get a Life 1-21-05
By Erica Cerulo / January 21, 2005
Raised in the Bronx, Ralph Lifshitz—the son of Russian Jewish immigrants—spent his teen years absorbing the charm and charisma of Fred Astaire and Cary Grant, attempting to imitate their sense of style. Fifty years and one name change later, Ralph has more than fulfilled his high school fantasyas the fashion designer who kicked off his career with a line of neckties for Bloomingdale’s under the brand Polo by Ralph Lauren. Ralph Lauren is the godfather of country-club cool and has marketed his cable-knit sweaters and corduroys not as products but as a lifestyle. Through the years, he has developed an...
Peering into Shakespeare’s mirror: Is art useless?
By Manasi Vydyanath / January 21, 2005
The separation of art from the exigency of usefulness is one of the more spectacular bifurcations in the history of aesthetics. It is a brilliant example of setting up a dichotomy where none exists—and of the far-reaching consequences of a “mere” philosophical schism. The modern variant of the argument against art as a commodity runs along the following lines: Art is immutable, and therefore cannot be actively used by anyone. Our enjoyment of art and the enlightenment we gain from it stems from passive experience. For instance, we cannot change music as it is being performed. We let the music...
STD (Stuff to Do) 1-21-05
By Libby Pearson / January 21, 2005
Friday, January 21 Look for Diskord, a progressive new U of C current affairs publication, all over campus today. Of course, Vita will be a tough act to follow. Vegan Week runs today through next Friday. So take a walk in your vegan buddy’s non-leather shoes, eat some (free!) food from Chicago’s plethora of vegan eateries, and find some good reasons to become a vegan (as if the mere existence of Chicago Diner and Amitabul aren’t enough). For the full schedule, go to the Vegan Society’s website: http://vegan.uchicago.edu. The Music Box launches the much-buzzed-about documentary on the late Chicago high school janitor,...
Forget Survivor: Renaissance Society offers the ultimate “reality show”
By Zoe Stillpass / January 21, 2005
Have you ever wondered, “Where is my Buddha mind?” Take a trip up to the fourth floor of Cobb; perhaps you’ll find some answers. The new show at the Renaissance Society, “The Here and Now,” contains three works of sculpture by three different artists: Javier Tellez, Sanford Biggers, and Katrin Sigurdardottir. A large helium balloon filling nearly the entire antechamber of the gallery confronts the viewer at the show’s entrance. To enter, he must awkwardly slip into the narrow space between it and the wall. This work by Venezuelan artist Javier Tellez makes it impossible for the viewer to avoid...
Jesus Christ, why are you such a Superstar?
By Carl Pickerill / January 21, 2005
The Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber version of Jesus, played by Eric Kunze, swings from elevated esplanades in summer beach garb. JC dons a pair of American khakis and an open-buttoned off-white shirt—looking much like the disgruntled Parisian who’s survived a blustery winter only to discover the wonders of springtime in the Riviera. Meanwhile, 11 of his 12 disciples don the overtly “skater” look: army boots and jeans, slicked-back hair, and skater gloves. Picture Emilio Estevez in Outsiders, cross him with Patrick Swayze, and you’ve got half the cast from Jesus Christ Superstar, playing from January 18 to 23...
In Good Company: Not so good at multi-tasking
By Laura Oppenheimer / January 18, 2005
Trying to do too many things at once can be difficult on a person. It can also be hard on a film that tries so hard to please everyone yet fails on most levels because of it. In Good Company, the newest film from Paul Weitz (About a Boy, American Pie) struggles with its identity. Is it a buddy movie? A coming-of-age story? Corporate drama? Romantic comedy? At different times it seems to be all of these, and in the process, none of the story lines or characters are fully developed or explored. The plot of the film is pretty...
Spamalot strikes perfect balance by revering, expanding comedy classic
By Emerald Gao / January 18, 2005
As both a Monty Python and a Mike Nichols fangirl, I was doubly excited for the Chicago stint of Monty Python’s Spamalot at the Shubert Theatre. The idea of turning one of the most enduring cult comedies into a musical is insane, to say the least, so I suppose original Monty Python star Eric Idle felt it just had to be done. Spamalot is based on the 1975 movie Monty Python and the Holy Grail, which centers around King Arthur and his ragtag band of knights— — Sirs Lancelot, Bedivere, Galahad, and Robin (the Not-Quite-So-Brave-as-Sir Lancelot), who travel through neo-absurdist...
Golden Globes bring glitz, glamor … and Wang
By Ilana Emmett / January 18, 2005
I never thought I’d say this, but thank god for Kathy Griffin! Last night on E!’s Golden Globes pre-show, she gained the title of First Host I’ve Ever Seen Ask a Funny Question on the Red Carpet. While Griffin dazzled us with actual witty repartee, “blessed” host Star Jones (who got about two-thirds of the airtime and the all the really famous stars) dazzled us with her inability to remember names or think on the spot. No matter what awards show it is, the pre-show is always the best place to find out what everyone is wearing, who’s dating whom,...
Shortcut – Parchman Farm EP
By Isaac Wolf / January 18, 2005
“Down-and-dirty fuzz rock with reckless abandon and, most importantly, soul,” write the promoters of Parchman Farm, describing the release of the NoCal garage band’s EP. Down-and-dirty fuzz rock? Excuse me? The album needs a new label—from the Surgeon General: “Warning: This noise may increase the risk of aneurysms. Although it will definitely not be confused with music, this album contains primal screams, lame lyrics, and other garage band ignominies.” Each of the five songs on the Parchman Farm’s EP goes something like this: Guitarist Allyson Baker and bassist Carson Binks begin an unmemorable but blazingly loud riff, and drummer Chris...
Shortcut – John Legend’s Get Lifted
By Ethan Stanislawski / January 18, 2005
While in the past it would have been easy not to recognize Kanye West as the producer of a noteworthy album, that isn’t the case anymore. Now West is more established, and probably a more skillful producer than he is a rapper, so his name draws instant recognition for any album he touches. West’s rap pedigree would at first seem out of place when associated with John Legend’s emotional, soulful debut album Get Lifted. Yet the further you get into the album, the more you learn that it is a surprisingly good match. Legend may not have the voice of...
How I leanred to stop worrying and love The O.C.
By Chris Ross / January 18, 2005
It’s formulaic, obnoxious, obvious, trite, contrived, clichéd, blunt, at times vomit-inducing, and so calculated that it threatens to become mathematical (plot course A and course B, introduce dynamic element, points conclude at point C and reverse), andit’s totally awesome. It’s The O.C. And it’s my new secret crush. Before Christmas break, I looked down on The O.C. with scorn. Acquaintances told me they had become addicted to The O.C., and I smiled sadly and nodded, mentally removing Sally or Joey from my list of dear and close friends. When I witnessed the wide-eyed exuberance of an O.C. fan, I’d offhandedly...
Almodóvar’s latest a mind – and gender – bender
By John Frame / January 18, 2005
I’m not sure that I could accurately describe the plot of Pedro Almodóvar’s new film La Mala Educación (or Bad Education, although the translation is misleading), so I won’t even try. This is partially because I only have 800 to 1000 words, and I’m not sure that would be enough. La Mala Educación stars Gael García Bernal (Y Tu Mamá También, The Motorcycle Diaries), who, in the words of Roger Ebert, “is turning out to be as versatile as Johnny Depp.” Bernal plays a young man named Ignacio, who returns home to see an old school friend, Enrique (talented, relaxed...
Small-Time Cooks 1-18-05
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / January 18, 2005
Maria and I were still on our Iron Chef kick, and we wanted to try our hand with vegetables. Maria suggested carrots, since they were cheap and quick to cook. So we got ourselves a bundle of the orange stuff and went to work. I made an Italian interpretation of Japanese maki rolls with carrot, and Maria made a delicious carrot soup and a sweet salad. Italian Maki 1 Tablespoon olive oil 1 Tablespoon butter 1/4 cup diced onion 1 cup Arborio rice 1/2 cup dry white wine 3 cups vegetable broth 2 large carrots, peeled and sliced into small...
A utilitarian analysis of trashy mags does the U of C proud
By Amanda Tice / January 18, 2005
People, Us Weekly, and the two-month old Life & Style Weekly are sweeping newsstands everywhere. But the question is: “Why are we eating up celebrity gossip like it’s the last thing on earth to read?” Dazzled by the shiny covers, glamorous clothing, and breathtaking beauty of the people on display, it seems as though a mere $3.99 is chump change for the chance to vicariously live “the fabulous life” for 10 minutes and take a peek at celebrity misfortunes. But which of these trash mags is worth your spare cash? To begin with, most of these magazines scream, “It’s all...
Pre-American Idiot, Double said it short and sweet
By Shaun Cullen / January 18, 2005
An ontology of the punk rock sound-image: 1) Lose the image. 2) Jam econo. Get in the van! 3) Say things to the press like, “We don’t rehearse; we practice. Actors rehearse; we’re musicians.” 4) Most important of all: Recognize the monumentality of the microscopic. Don’t render your sentiments monumental with orchestral sweeps through chiaroscuro production techniques. Counter these Rockist tendencies towards Wagnerian grandeur (the macroscopic) with minimalist production techniques, lyrics voiced in the patois of poetic Socialist modernism, and really short songs. Lots of really short songs spread out over two LPs. Make one of these songs a Steely...
King to its Queen, Smiths’ last takes crown for mope
By Mehan Jayasuria / January 14, 2005
If you have only a little familiarity with the Smiths, you probably know them as one of the ’80s most celebrated rock acts, a highly influential band spawned from the ashes of English post-punk and New Wave. You might have seen them on one of those “Top 100 of All Time” lists that magazines like Rolling Stone and NME seem to put together every year, with the albums The Queen is Dead and Meat is Murder probably charting somewhere near the middle. Queen is a no-brainer; since the Smiths were more of a singles band, their third album was really...
Get a Life 1-14-05
By Erica Cerulo / January 14, 2005
As my dad and brother begrudgingly heaved an oversized television up the flight of stairs to my apartment during our first winter storm, I realized that this TV was part of the necessary stockpiling one must do for these intense Chicago winters. During the winter in this city, we seek the comforts of our cozy beds, a good book, a nice cup of tea, and some bad TV. The image of my three roommates and I huddled around a tiny set trying to make out Iron Chef concoctions on the Food Network is nothing short of moronic. And so I...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) 1-14-05
By Libby Pearson / January 14, 2005
Friday, January 14 Designer toy store Rotofugi is hosting a traveling art exhibition of customized skateboard decks made by nationally—and internationally—acclaimed artists. Three Inches From the Street continues until February 19, but tonight DJ Clayton Counts will spin at an open reception, where you can drink for free and meet skateboard artist and exhibition curator Joshua Brown. (7- to 11 p.m., free, 1953 West Chicago) As part of MLK Week, Roots and Rhymes: Spoken Word/Open Mic Evening invites students for coffee, dessert, and an evening of cross-cultural artistry. To sign up, e-mail tamdenre@uchicago.edu. (7 to 9:30 p.m., Uncle Joe’s Coffee Shop) Knock...
Neither sonic terrorist nor the Holy Ghost, Brotzmann is simply sax dazzler
By Eric Benson / January 14, 2005
Albert Ayler, the dynamic and short-lived tenor saxophonist, famously embodied his part in what he considered the “Holy Trinity” of free jazz tenors: He was the Holy Ghost, Pharaoh Sanders was the Son, and the much-worshipped John Coltrane was the Father. Ayler died in 1970, too early to realize that another titanic figure of free jazz tenor saxophone had already emerged on the other side of the Atlantic. Ever since the self-released 1968 masterpiece Machine Gun, the great German free jazz innovator Peter Brötzmann has been among the most important figures in the music industry. It took many years for...
Piano prodigy makes up for inconsistent orchestra
By Malkah Bressler / January 14, 2005
A conglomeration of early classical music—two Haydn symphonies, No. 86 in D Major and No. 99 in E-flat minor, flanked by the early modern Bartók Piano Concerto No. 2—made for an unusual concert at the Chicago Symphony Orchestra on January 6. The result, although initially disconcerting, proved to be dazzling upon better acquaintance with the material. Although vastly different stylistically and tonally, the combination of old and modern allowed the audience to explore new dimensions of both. The hidden melodic nature of Bartók’s music accrued the greatest advantage by far. Haydn’s inclination to favor the charming melody over harmony created...
Small Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / January 11, 2005
Maria and I were watching late-night television after a hot night on the town. We were just in time to see two chefs race toward a giant tuna to try and get its head. The show was Iron Chef, and an idea hit us like a cold wind on a January morning—we would get our own secret ingredient and make dinner with it. Maria wanted to get people in on it, so we had a friend over for our own cook-off. Our secret ingredient was orange, so we made a couple of Italian favorites with a citrus twist. Orange Bruschetta...
New Gamecube Metroid kills time, not brain cells
By Sean Ahmed / January 11, 2005
Every once in a while, a game comes along that’s so perfect you can’t help but admire its quality. Some games—take the fun but flawed Grand Theft Auto series—get by on entertainment alone, despite play control or design weaknesses. Nintendo’s Metroid series is an example of the first group. It is one of the most intricate, well thought-out, and technically superb game series of all time. And with Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, developer Retro Studios throws diverse new environments, innovative abilities, and some mind-bending puzzles into the mix—once again delivering everything you could want from a Metroid game. Two years...
Shortcuts
By Isaac Wolf / January 11, 2005
Various Artists The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou Original Soundtrack Hollywood While hipster auteur Wes Anderson’s latest film, The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou, gets more than its share of critical lauding and lambasting (perhaps more polarized than ever before), there is one thing that is difficult for anyone to negate: the director’s discerning ear—for music, anyway. While his naysayers pick on his penchant for flat delivery and his fanboys hail his ironic wit, both can agree that a David Bowie song is a welcome addition to any cinematic endeavor, and Anderson sure can pick ’em. A Bowie song sung...
Two musicians ponder use, abuse, and Yo-Yo Ma
By Alexander Coppock / January 11, 2005
Why speak of the use of poetry? Poetry is what uses us. —Hayden Carruth Clearly, this applies to music as well. The way words/music course through us informs us of possible ways to live. A passive experience of art betters our lives. Passive because we cannot change a recording as we listen to it; we can only change our experience of it. A passive listener actively creates meaning for himself. Alexander finds uncomfortable the anthropologist who examines, from a critical distance, the uses of music in our contemporary tangle. He is curious when confronted with Bach on the customer service...
Kiefer Sutherland begins another unbelievably bad day on fourth season of 24
By Davin Essex / January 11, 2005
Four years ago, television audiences were introduced to Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) and his motley counterterrorism crew, who, in each season, save the world (or do they?) over a 24-hour period. (Each episode is an hour in “real time” presented to the “chi-chick” chime of the show’s signature digital clock). The past three “days”—generally separated by a year or so—have given us many unforgettable television moments. Like the time they dropped a nuclear bomb in the desert outside of L.A. Or the time the blonde girl got caught in a bear trap and stalked by a cougar. Or the time...
Thanks to Cheadle, Hotel Rwanda worth visiting
By John Frame / January 11, 2005
Based on a true story, Hotel Rwanda—director Terry George’s heartbreaking yet uplifting masterpiece—is the best film of 2004. The film centers on the 1994 Rwandan genocide, when nearly one million members of the Tutsi tribe and the Rwandan Prime Minister were slaughtered by their Hutu brethren over a three-month period and the entire world ignored the conflict. Aided by Paul Rusesabagina (played by the talented Don Cheadle, in a powerful, embodied performance), 1,268 Tutsi lives were saved. An unlikely hero, Rusesabagina was the appointed manager of Kigali, Rwanda’s luxury Hotel Mille Collines. The Belgians used the Tutsis to control the...
Santa brings three great films, one lump of coal
By Matt Zakosek / January 7, 2005
A recurring theme of my winter break was the enjoyment of films I hadn’t even wanted to see. It’s hard to argue with the friend who insists on buying the tickets, and since my friend Sam has taste much different from mine, I had to pass up a few first choices with comments that could charitably be described as ungracious. But guess what? The joke was on me. I haven’t had this much fun at the movies since I was a boy. And keeping that in mind, I’ll start with my opinions on the one exception, and also the most...
Wolfe pleases himself – just not readers – with collegiate sex-crazed opus
By Isaac Wolf / January 7, 2005
Where fun comes to die. Our school’s kitschy moniker describes an interesting destination, but what exactly is college supposed to be? Maybe it’s a place where sex flows as freely as beer at the fraternity houses? Or where the athletic teams consistently vie for national championships? Or where a student must hide an interest in academics at all costs? In the mind’s eye of Tom Wolfe, college is precisely these things. In I Am Charlotte Simmons, Wolfe’s new novel, Dupont University is presented to mirror an elite college campus and follows the title character’s first semester. As Charlotte warms up...
Of variations, innovations, bestsellers, and vampires
By Manasi Vydyanath / January 7, 2005
The death of classical music is a topic whose timelessness is only matched by its ability to precipitate a lively conversation. In the modern critical context, the Malthusian eye appears to have shifted from generalized demise to ossification; the question is no longer whether classical music will die, but whether it will cease to be alive. Broadly speaking, there are two dimensions to the alleged decay—the aesthetic and the economic. Artistic stasis occurs when new music stops being relevant, and financial dissolution takes place when individuals express their opinion of its irrelevance by not acquiring it. Exploring the connection and...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do) 1-7-05
By Jenn Barnes / January 7, 2005
Friday, January 7 If you’re lucky and don’t have any classes, head to Intuit: The Center for Intuitive and Outsider Art. This museum says, “Hey, you don’t have to be trained to showcase your work here.” Found Magazine’s exhibit opens Friday and includes—you guessed it—found items, like notes and photos. Since we had such a good time reading old notes when back home for break, we have a feeling voyeuristic note reading is pretty pleasurable too. (Open 12 p.m. to 5 p.m., 756 North Milwaukee) Zach Braff’s directorial debut Garden State is just as good as that Frou Frou song in the...
Sparta leave El Paso drive-in to create new sounds
By Echo Gonzalez / November 30, 2004
The dim, fluttering lights brightened as abundant shouts and whistles met the opening notes of “Guns of Memorial Park.” Soon, it was as if the band’s feverish pace-changes and driving guitar riffs hypnotized the entire audience. Jim Ward let loose his first evocative scream, and a collective shiver ran through the crowd of shaggy-haired, sad-eyed Sparta fans. So beautifully powerful were the vibes between band and audience that the usually unsympathetic Metro bouncers turned a blind eye to the mosh pit that formed during intense songs like “Mye.” Hailing from El Paso, Texas, Sparta has been playing shows for about...
Seminal Browne album foretells doom and gloom
By Andrew Miragliotta / November 23, 2004
Long before the members of Dashboard Confessional were even twinkles in their mamas’ eyes, Jackson Browne was writing lyrics more emo than they could ever dream. Considered by many to be the quintessential sensitive singer-songwriter of the 1970s, Jackson Browne is often overlooked, as he has produced few hit singles on his own. The live medley of his own “Loadout” and the Zodiacs’ “Stay” is one of his only songs that gets much airplay, aside from some other hits he co-wrote, like the Eagles’ “Take It Easy.” But while Browne has no real standout singles, it is difficult to turn...
Unearthed Noel Coward play engages emotions
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 23, 2004
Throw away the brandy glasses and the tuxedos—this is not that type of Noël Coward play. With This Happy Breed, the Timeline Theatre Company has made a bold choice in producing a rare play by a rarely produced playwright. It is even more daring that they chose a play that does not fit Coward’s reputation. And while Timeline has, for the most part, put on an excellent production, it is easy to tell why this play is almost never produced. Despite some fundamental flaws in the play itself, it is definitely still worth seeing due to its emotional power, even...
Pearls of Wisdom 11-23-04
By Lila Pearl / November 23, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, How can I find out if a girl is available or not without actually having to ask her, “So, do you have a boyfriend?” I wanna be subtle, you know, and not seem like a desperate loser. I’ve already been shot down a couple times, and I’m hoping the next time will be different. —Aw Geez Dear Aw, Generally speaking, people are as available as they want to be, depending on who’s asking. If you ask a lady out for a meal and she fails to mention her boyfriend by the time the evening has ended, it’s...
Farrell’s Alexander is only as great as his dye job in Stone’s pricey bore
By Sarah Cohan / November 23, 2004
“Fortune favors the bold”—except for the people who waste time on this movie. This quote is often repeated in the awful Oliver Stone-produced epic Alexander. It was dreadful from start to finish. I still don’t understand how a moderately talented cast—Angelina Jolie, Anthony Hopkins, Colin Farrell, Jared Leto, and many more—could create such an excruciatingly painful experience. I wish I could get back the three hours of my life that I wasted on this movie. It all starts with Anthony Hopkins delivering a long, drawn-out monologue. That scene only plunges deeper into a walk-out-of-the-theater type of bad movie. We delve...
Small-Time Cooks 11-23-04
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / November 23, 2004
Maria and I were worn out after a long week at work. I was stuck in the kitchen late all week, and Maria was busier than I was. At the end of it all, getting together with friends was just what we needed. We made appetizers, and they didn’t take much time at all. The asparagus wraps were a hit, and the bite-sized mushrooms and cucumbers were quick to go, too. It’s too bad the weekend didn’t last longer. These dishes make finger food for about 6-8 people. Stuffed Mushrooms 12 large white mushrooms 1 clove chopped garlic 1 Tablespoon...
New Jersey’s Leo shows D.C. girl that the Midwest can rock. You dig?
By Marina France / November 23, 2004
I have a confession to make. For the longest while I didn’t really believe people when they told me that Chicago was the great music town. Sure, I was willing to accept the whole “hometown of blues” bit and, don’t get me wrong, I like blues and being in a place that is so central to them. But when it came to my scene—the indie/progressive/punk/post-rock/hardcore/ska, etc. scene—I’ve seen a lot of shows in my time, and I came to Chicago pretty jaded. I blame my hometown. Two things that kids growing up in the outskirts of Washington, D.C. have in...
DJ Spooky spins Birth of a Nation on its head
By Zoe Stillpass / November 23, 2004
Beneath an ambient blue light at the Museum of Contemporary Art, DJ Spooky—a.k.a. “That Subliminal Kid” —played strange beats to disturbing images of Ku Klux Klan propaganda. The New York-based artist/musician, also known as Paul D. Miller, performed his newest 75-minute work, Rebirth of a Nation—along with its score, “The Rebirth Suite”—every night from Thursday the 18th through Sunday the 21st. Miller remixed D.W. Griffith’s 1915 white supremacist film The Birth of a Nation, which deals with the civil war and its aftermath. Miller’s film begins with quick flashes of international flags and logos. It then launches into manipulated scenes...
Truls Mork is just a master cellist, proud-sounding
By Rebecca Shi / November 21, 2004
I have always wanted to play the cello—the instrument and its associations are both aesthetically and artistically alluring. Some of my considerations: the beautiful wooden body; its dark, earthy tone (which is said to be the closest to the human voice); and the fact that some of the most stunning music ever written has a place in its repertoire. However, I began playing the flute about seven years ago, and as much as I enjoy it, I sometimes can’t help but wonder what would have happened had I taken up the cello. In an effort to ease my mind, I...
Get a life – 11/19/04
By Erica Cerulo / November 21, 2004
I often question whether I am actually intelligent or just a good test-taker, and today’s experience proves I must be the latter. According to the “Wine IQ Quiz” (courtesy of FoodTV), I am a Savvy Sipper—which is clearly a stretch if not an outright lie. I couldn’t even list all of the varieties of Boone’s Farm, let alone explain the scents of a Burgundy or what to pair with a nice piece of sea bass. Nonetheless, the score 7 out of 10 stares back at me, a grade more impressive than the ones achieved on my French 101 quizzes. Although...
National Treasure : If Jerry Bruckheimer taught your AP history class
By Andrew Hammond / November 21, 2004
National Treasure is everything you would expect from a Jerry Bruckheimer production: a movie that groans and inevitably collapses under the weight of a heavy score, even heavier action sequences, and heavier-still sentimentality. I assume that, conceptually, National Treasure was supposed to conflate The Da Vinci Code and the Indiana Jones trilogy. Yet, what we get is an ugly looking hybrid that neither accomplishes the clever twists of the former nor the excellent dialogue and sense of adventure of the latter. In fact, while the Indiana Jones movies were able to make their protagonist into a hero-nerd, Cage’s Ben Gates...
STD – 11/19/04
By Libby Pearson / November 21, 2004
Friday, November 19 You saw Tokyo Godfathers last year, but now you can see it for “free,” with Asian snacks, while giving to charity. (6:30 p.m., small donation suggested, Harper 130) Check out the fantastic Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle, showing tonight at Doc. The cinematography is beyond compare, especially when Kumar is served coffee by—what else?—a huge bag of pot. After viewing the film for the first time, I was more than inspired to make the same perilous journey for a sack of ten (okay, so I actually got fish sandwiches). Go forth and do the same. (7, 9,...
Take a walk on the Wilde side with UT’s witty, gender-bending Earnest
By Carl Pickerill / November 21, 2004
Score one for rapidity. UT’s production of Oscar Wilde’s The Importance of Being Earnest knows no bound to its speedy upward trajectories. Its actors rattle off classic one-liners and unforgettable Wildesque dialogue with such fleeting abandon that one feels privileged to hear brilliance and inadequate to resist being dominated by it. I left the theater thankful I had read the script just hours before, lest I lose myself in Wilde’s satirical cleverness and incisive social criticism, entirely unable to re-visualize it for my own enjoyment First-year in the College Harry Nangle debuts admirably as Jack Worthing, Wilde’s hapless protagonist. Jack,...
Lack of complexity makes Kinsey a flaccid biopic
By Matt Zakosek / November 21, 2004
It’s almost impossible for me to review Kinsey the same way I would have last year. Before this summer, the only exposure I had to Dr. Kinsey and his infamous research methods were a few furtive peeks through my parents’ copy of his controversial 1948 tome, Sexual Behavior of the Human Male. (I’m not sure why I was so secretive; they kept it in plain sight on a bookshelf in the den. Too bad the good doctor never had a chance to interview me.) But I spent the weeks leading up to the school year reading The Inner Circle by...
Another take on Contempo’s 40th Anniversary Concert
By Eric Benson and Will C. White / November 16, 2004
On Tuesday, October 26, Contempo—formerly known as the Contemporary Chamber Players—held their 40th Anniversary concert at the Chicago Historical Society on the near North Side. Contempo seems to be at a crossroads. Along with its new name, it has stated its desire to expand its audience beyond the University of Chicago (ergo the near North Side venue), and even redefine its musical role. This latter goal was accomplished by the unorthodox programming of the night in which, for the first time, Contempo paired its typical repertoire of contemporary classical music with music from outside the classical domain: jazz. The first...
Coming off of recent triumphs, Mathers slinks back to Slim Shady… singing
By Joe Hanson / November 16, 2004
Guess who’s back? He’s the most successful white artist in hip-hop, he’s the only rapper to win an Oscar, and he has a recurring fetish for cross-dressing in his videos. Fresh off of a successful acting debut and a D12 album that works as an excellent coaster, Eminem returns with his fourth album, Encore. Since the record will sell millions no matter what’s on it, he has the unique opportunity to take his music in any direction he wants. Eminem’s first three albums were very different. The Slim Shady LP had self-deprecating humor and clever storytelling. The Marshall Mathers LP...
After divisive MAB show, each fan defends his band
By Andy Marchesseault / November 16, 2004
Indie-rock darlings the Walkmen and drunk-rock darling Ryan Adams played MAB’s fall show this past Saturday at Mandel Hall. Voices Editor Andy Marchesseault and Voices Less-Than Editor Brad Heffern were there. This is their story. Andy: So, Brad—I came into this show with high hopes. The Walkmen (New Yorkers by way of D.C.) absolutely rocked my socks off when I saw them this summer, and I was expecting more of the same for the MAB show. Plus, their latest album is really good, and I already have it penciled in as my number two record of the year. As for...
Playwright Jeremy Cohan strives for “the untranslatable”
By Claire Gilbert / November 16, 2004
Written and directed by student Jeremy Cohan, A (Serious) Game for Three (Really Four) Players is the sort of work that we should hope to see more of from University Theater’s newly established workshops. The longest of four productions comprising “Fourplay: A Weekend of Workshops,” A (Serious) Game is a delightful exploration of the possibilities of theater. Although all workshop shows must be performed minus elaborate lights, costumes, and sets, these restrictions did not prove limiting; instead, they gave the show boundaries to push. A mostly empty stage was the perfect place—in fact, the only place—where the script could have...
In UT workshops, offerings prove to be mixed bag
By Joel Lanceta / November 16, 2004
A man is in love with his washing machine. Latter-day cannibals invite the descendents of one of their previous “main courses” over to apologize. And six hyperactive youths act out everything they’ve never done before in their lives. Add a transvestite hooker and his pregnant ex-girlfriend and you’d get an episode of The Jerry Springer Show. Otherwise, it’s just another Friday at University Theater (UT). These weird, short, and sometimes frightening plays were part of the latest UT production (November 10-13), entitled Fourplay. (Fourplay—get it? It’s a pun!) Fourplay, presented at the Reynolds Club’s First Floor Theater, was a series...
Do you Love the ’90s? Check out the stellar Stella.
By Emerald Gao / November 16, 2004
David Wain knows how to ask the important questions in life: “What could be better than sitting in a Jacuzzi and cracking farts all day?” It’s supposed to be a rhetorical question, but Michael Showalter isn’t going to give Wain the last word. “Who actually refers to it as ‘cracking’ a fart?” A more important question, perhaps, but we’ll never be sure. Stella Comedy, a traveling comedy show created by Wain, Showalter, and Michael Ian Black, is full of quasi-juvenile questions and wiseass replies like this, and it works, in a strange yet endearing way. Stella was hatched in 1997...
Shortcuts: Destiny Fulfilled
By Loretta Nuccio / November 16, 2004
According to the first two tracks on Destiny's Child's latest album, Destiny Fulfilled, Beyoncé and the girls are back—with a vengeance—on their fourth full-length. Fulfilled starts boldly with "Lose My Breath," a fast-paced song with heavy breathing reminiscent of Britney Spears's hit "I'm A Slave 4 U." But the song's pop genius lies in its marching-band beat and addictive hook. Next is "Soldier" featuring rappers T.I. and Lil' Wayne. Both "Breath" and "Soldier" are catchy enough to rocket to the top of the singles charts. Unfortunately, though, they're also strong enough to get the CD to the top of Billboard's...
Shortcuts: The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie
By Andy Marchesseault / November 16, 2004
Two unavoidable facts: Nickelodeon animation has achieved success far beyond the days of Ren and Stimpy with a talking yellow sponge, and his movie is reaching both the kiddies and the college students alike this coming Friday. Another fact to consider: it is possible that Nick is banking on us young intellectuals to flood the multiplexes just as much as the short pants brigade. Hence, this soundtrack album is geared toward the ironic hipsters who can appreciate some clever cartoon characters, in addition to, well, good music. Combining (mostly) smart modern rock and pop with the serious pipes of obviously...
Pearls of Wisdom 11-16-04
By Lila Pearl / November 16, 2004
Lila, I have a dire situation I need you to help me work through. I am unsure of how to comprehend the recent realities confronting me, particularly with regard to the current sociopolitical climate. I am having too much trouble rectifying the words spoken by some of my liberal friends and the various pieces of information I accumulate in this urban, urbane existence. Specifically, we are seeing the reelection of Bush, and a 51 percent mandate for his policies to boot. Now I feel all is lost, as we are seeing a net increase in jobs across the last few...
Armistice Day piece probes personal, presidential
By Alexander Coppock / November 16, 2004
Last Thursday, November 11, marked the 86th anniversary of the end of the First World War—Veterans’ Day in the good old US of A, Remembrance Day in the U.K., and Armistice Day everywhere else. Perhaps commemorating peace isn’t in the air these dark days, but I didn’t remember the occasion either, until about 9 p.m., when the CSO began to play Shostakovich’s 8th Symphony. This symphony was written in 1943, at a time when the world was wishing it still had the time to commemorate peace accords. The piece is uncomfortable in its own skin: It is grossly lopsided, has...
Small-Time Cooks 11-16-04
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / November 16, 2004
This week was exhausting. Mark was busy planning the Thanksgiving menu at the restaurant, and I was busy at work. By the end of the week, we both just wanted to collapse in front of a good movie, but my TV was in the shop. Instead, we invited a friend over and made something simple. The food was good—but after a long week, the wine was even better. Vegetable Panini 1 large round loaf 3-4 zucchini 1 large onion 2 cups crimini or Portobello mushrooms 1 red bell pepper, sliced into strips fresh arugula chopped fresh basil or fresh pesto...
The spawn of Radiohead win over fawning Americans at Riviera love-fest
By Irene Gallego / November 16, 2004
The Riviera is one of those venues that looks like it’s going to come down on your head at any moment. It’s decrepit, quasi-abandoned, and has more plaster missing from the once-ornate ceiling than present. It’s a pity, really, because it does have that air of having been a lovely place a long time ago. But then you figure that if it has to come down it will be in a show like Saturday night’s, when British band Muse played to a frantic, sold-out crowd that must have disregarded every single venue rule, save perhaps the one about stage diving....
Beastie Boys brandish bouncing beats and breathless rhymes in concert
By Laura Fuchs / November 12, 2004
“Now here’s a little story/I’ve got to tell/’Bout three bad brothers/You know so well.” Yeah, that’s right, the Boys, the Boys, the Beastie Beastie Boys. They’re the greatest Jewish rap/rock Brooklyn band of our time, with the smartest lyrics to ever hit the radio: “I got franks and pork and beans/Always bust the new routines/I get it, I got it, I know it’s good/The rhymes I write—you wish you would.” It isn’t surprising that they played to a nearly sold-out show in the United Center (the same arena where the Bulls play) on Thursday, November 4. They’ve been around since...
Get a Life 11-12-04
By Erica Cerulo / November 12, 2004
Ah, the family dinner is upon us. In a short two weeks, we will be knee-deep in the next Hallmark-approved holiday, and I will be making my mom’s stuffing and eating my dad’s, offering up glowing praise for my aunt’s cranberry relish, attempting to rationalize how exactly my mother calculates food “needs,” and bitching when my uncle shows up three hours later than planned, even though he only lives three hours away. To me, however, it only makes sense that these pseudo-Thanksgiving traditions are obscure. Would it really be a family gathering if it were “normal?” If you can’t make...
Before you thought he was sexy, Rod actually rocked
By Shaun Cullen / November 12, 2004
Every Picture Tells a Story is the greatest rock album ever recorded by a prostitute. Rod Stewart is not a rock star. He never was. Rod Stewart is a gigolo. Yet everything that passed Rod’s tongue from 1966 to 1972 turned to soul, rock ‘n’ roll songs in particular. For six years Rod was the greatest singer in all of rock. He didn’t have much competition. The lifespan of the rock singer lasted from 1956 until Elvis’ death, and the King of Rock proliferated during the time when rock songwriting reached its peak. Bob Dylan’s voice can’t put you in...
Le Concert Spirituel: lively listening, inspired critique
By Manasi Vydyanath / November 12, 2004
Ernest: “You are incorrigible. But, seriously speaking, who needs art criticism? If [an artist’s] work is easy to understand, no explanation is necessary” Gilbert: “And if his work is incomprehensible, an explanation is wicked.” —Oscar Wilde, Critic as Artist Le Concert Spirituel’s performance last Friday seemed exquisite enough to provoke such a statement, and complete enough to merit such a response. Conducted by Hervé Niquet, the ensemble performed Marc-Antoine Charpentier’s Messe de Monsieur de Mauroy, Marche pour les trompettes and Te Deum, works epitomizing the elegance, grace and piquant pointlessness of the French Baroque. Charpentier was an aggregator sans pareil;...
STD (Stuff to Do) 11-12-04
By Libby Pearson / November 12, 2004
Friday, November 12 Fashionistas should head over to the nearest H&M locations on State Street and Michigan Avenue for today’s debut of new pieces by Karl Lagerfeld. Lagerfeld is best known for haute couture, especially at Chanel and Fendi, where his designs go for a pretty penny—which we, needless to say, don’t have. Not to worry; pieces in this collection will range in price from $19.90 to $149.90. Poet Susan Stewart reads for Poem Present in conjunction with the Around Zukofsky conference, which celebrates the birth centenary of Louis Zukofsky. Interested parties should go to poetics.uchicago.edu to learn more about the conference....
After previous super successes, Pixar gives adults most of the action in new film
By Mehan Jayasuria / November 12, 2004
Do you ever wonder what old Bob Dylan must’ve been thinking that fateful day at Newport in 1965, right before he launched into “Maggie’s Farm?” I don’t think he had any doubts about being a master of his form, as he was never really one for modesty. Rather, I think he must have resigned himself to the fact that no matter how good you are, there comes a time when you just have to try something new. Which brings me to Pixar’s newest film. I don’t think that anyone doubts that Pixar is the world’s premiere CG animation studio. I...
Blues Explosion solidify status as rock saviors
By David Nagel / November 12, 2004
As the world gets crazier each day, as music becomes ever more bound to the principles of postmodernism, as I hear the guy with the leaf-blower inch ever closer to my window as I try to finish this sentence, I ask myself: Is there anything that doesn’t change? Can we still fall back on that most basic yet paradoxical pillar of Western culture—rock? Well, I suppose we can find more bands playing “rock ‘n’ roll” music than we could ever possibly need, but do they really rock? The Blues Explosion (now without “Jon Spencer” in the name, though he’s still...
Foxx leaves Booty Call days behind him with Ray
By John Frame / November 9, 2004
What’s most exciting about Ray, the new Ray Charles bio-pic directed by Taylor Hackford (An Officer and a Gentleman)—besides the sweet-tasting musical antics of a “genius who loves company” (to name-drop the new CD by Ray Charles)—is Jamie Foxx’s eclectic physical and emotional portrayal of the late legend. It has been said in almost every popular review that Foxx’s performance is so amazing that the spectator forgets he is not the actual Charles. He is engaging and stylish as he floats effortlessly through the years of Charles’s life. The film, which took almost 18 years to complete, is a 2-hour,...
Following a masterpiece, Dylan pours his heart into often overlooked gem
By Brad Heffern / November 9, 2004
The ’70s were a productive period for Bob Dylan, perhaps only eclipsed by his incomparable output in the ’60s. Several albums from this era are well regarded by posterity: New Morning, Planet Waves, Street Legal, and Slow Train Coming are all very strong albums, if not stone-cold classics. Blood on the Tracks, however, defined the ’70s as much as Joni Mitchell’s Blue, and is considered by many to be Bob Dylan’s best album. Unfortunately, Desire, released just a year after Blood on the Tracks, is often overshadowed by its acclaimed predecessor. I say this is unfortunate because, if one takes...
Themes of sex, worship still potent in Equus revoval
By Ethan Stanislawski / November 9, 2004
Upon its 1974 Broadway premiere, Peter Shaffer’s Equus shocked and amazed thousands of theatergoers. With its nudity, provocative content, and portrayal of deeply disturbed individuals, it became one of the most controversial, as well as one of the greatest, plays in the English language of the past fifty years. The play’s main criticism is that in a mechanical and bitterly scientific age, a man becomes vulnerable to losing his sense of worship, and therefore losing a part of his individuality. Even so, when one reads the play, one is taken aback by the form that message takes. No reading can...
Small-Time Cooks 11-09-04
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / November 9, 2004
Winter was fast approaching, and I still had dreams of summer food. Before I began making soups and other warm food, I needed to remind myself of that fresh feeling from a plate of pasta and a nice salad. The first icy breeze of winter slapped me like a date gone wrong, and the kitchen was my refuge. Maria invited some friends over and we made ziti and a great side salad. We turned the leftover salad into wraps, and the ziti made a great breakfast. These dishes serve four. Baked Ziti 1 lb. ziti or penne pasta Large jar...
Donkey Konga appeals to kids and slackers alike
By Sean Ahmed / November 9, 2004
“Are those bongos? I want to play!” have been the most uttered words around the Maroon office this past week. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, Halo 2, and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes are currently getting the most focus from gamers, but one of Nintendo GameCube’s smaller releases can compete with those hits based on one factor alone: fun. Attracting attention from males and females, game players and technophobes alike, Donkey Konga has successfully capitalized on the rhythm video game genre, bringing a similar but ultimately more raucous feel to the house that Dance Dance Revolution built. A set of bongos...
Critic to campus jokesters: Stop this world, I want to get Off-Off
By Joel Lanceta / November 9, 2004
The comedic universe has been cruel to us this past year: Friends went off the air, that Charlie Sheen sitcom is still on the air, Rodney Dangerfield died, and the funniest movie to come out this summer was Catwoman. To make matters worse, the gods of humor played the biggest cosmic joke on the United States with last Tuesday’s elections—well, it probably looked funny to them. Seriously, we need laughter right now. Luckily for U of C students, they don’t have to perform human sacrifices to said gods of humor for a little laughter. Off-Off Campus, one of the oldest...
Pearls of Wisdom 11-09-04
By Lila Pearl / November 9, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, How do you know when something is a date or just a dinner engagement between two friends? I’ve shared several meals with this male friend of mine and I still can’t tell if we’re dating or not. —Helplessly Hoping Dear Helpless, A tricky question, if there ever was one. There are various conventional signs to look out for which might key you into the datiness of a meal: Does the man pay? Is there awkward flirtation? Hand-brushing when reaching for the pepper? Sex in the bathroom between the fois gras and the pear tart? But there’s only...
Quarter imbues music with unique Russian flair
By Jeremy Rosenberg / November 9, 2004
Russian music and Russian musicians. No better coupling exists. None is so complementary, so sublime, so perfect. Anyone can play Germanic music; it has become far too universal to belong to the Germans any longer. Italian music belongs to the virtuosos, and not to the Italians in particular. Though English music certainly has a uniquely British character, that character is well known enough by European and American orchestras to be easily imitated. Spain would be able to contend with Russia were it not for the fact that Arthur Rubinstein—born in Poland and trained in Berlin—became a chief interpreter of the...
Lost souls, classic Holmes come to vivid life at UT
By Andrew Hammond / November 7, 2004
Danny and the Deep Blue Sea, presented this Friday and Saturday by University Theater, is a furious sprint by two desperate and isolated people who, in a night of need, reach out and find solace in the misery they share. The one-act play is at once an intimate portrait of two lost souls and a testament to the transforming power of human contact. It is clear from the production that the director, Paul Dichter, recognizes the attraction of the former and the import of the latter. And in that way, the portrayals of Dan, played by Sam Undine, and Roberta,...
Despite raw talent, Andsnes and Bostridge lack that certain something
By Alexander Coppock / November 7, 2004
Ian Bostridge is a fantastic tenor and has found his equal in pianist Leif Ove Andsnes. Last Wednesday evening, the two offered Schubert’s song cycle, Winterreise, to all those present at Symphony Center. Each man has an exceedingly impressive résumé—and in all likelihood, a corresponding ego—but neither the specter of past accomplishments nor of pride marred the performance. Both seemed as involved in playing the piano as singing and equally invested as a performer and as a listener. Bostridge and Andsnes were quoted as saying that Wednesday evening’s performance of the 24 songs of Schubert’s winter journey was their best...
STD (Stuff to Do) 11-05-04
By Jenn Barnes / November 7, 2004
Friday, November 5 Go po-mo at SOFA Chicago, which features sculpture objects and functional art (get it? S.O.F.A.?!) from far-off lands like Scandinavia and Israel. The exhibition at Navy Pier Festival Hall opens today and runs through Sunday. (11 a.m.-8 p.m., $12, Navy Pier Festival Hall) Thrash metal band Slayer is playing at the Aragon Ballroom. They don’t hold a candle to Cannibal Corpse, but that’s just my humble opinion. (6 p.m., $32.50, all ages) STD made a boo-boo last week and forgot to mention that Reeling 2004: The 23rd Chicago Lesbian & Gay International Film Festival began yesterday. But never fear,...
Pearls of Wisdom 11-05-04
By Lila Pearl / November 7, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, I’ve been dating a certain young man for about two months. We have the same taste in movies and music, our sex life is good, I’m really attracted to him, and he seems like a really sweet guy. Only trouble is, last Tuesday he voted for Bush. Should I dump him? I don’t want to give up a good thing if it’s not necessary. What would you do, Lila Pearl? Sincerely, Torn and Frayed Dear Torn, Lila Pearl understands, really she does, sometimes there’s nothing sexier than a man who’s not afraid to vote his values right...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / November 2, 2004
Maria and I were busy in the kitchen, and the weather wasn’t helping much either. Besides that, I knew this guy who had a date with destiny, and I was afraid he wasn’t going to make it. He had to face down this nut who was crazy enough to make sense to a lot of people. I’d heard his act for years now and wasn’t convinced. Since Maria and I were so busy, we whipped up some snacks to take on the go. Maria had a great recipe for quick vegetable sandwiches and granola, and we could go all night...
Pianist riffs on Radiohead; eighth blackbird fly high
By Manasi Vydyanath / November 2, 2004
A brilliant, thought-provoking concert that left very little to chance, Contempo’s performance last Tuesday was as meticulously structured as a Bach fugue. The evening was a double bill: the first half featuring classical music, and the second a jazz-inspired piano recital by the mesmerizing Brad Mehldau. The classical repertoire was something of a reprise—all the pieces had previously been presented on various occasions—and the programming tended to veer slightly toward the canonical, but by no means did that detract from its interest. It was rather like re-reading a superb novel; one knows precisely what is going to happen next but...
Matador revives another watershed album by ’90s alternative rock icons
By Andy Marchesseault / November 2, 2004
The wonderful thing about reissues is that they allow you to rediscover a long-beloved band, often through the dual delights of bonus tracks and remastered recording. Sometimes they let you unearth an album that had previously evaded your shelves of CDs or LPs, which is what happened to me back in April. Sony released a 10th anniversary edition of Nas’ landmark Illmatic at the end of March and, due to my regal position at the maroon, I received a promo copy in the mail. Already a fan of hip-hop with an ever-growing collection of seminal albums, I welcomed Illmatic into...
A fan is born: Wilco’s homecoming awes Auditorium
By Jim Ryan / November 2, 2004
Wow. Simply wow. That is about the most accurate way to describe the first night of performance at the austere and delicately beautiful Auditorium Theatre by Chicago natives Wilco. Yet I will attempt to relay the experience to the best of my journalistic ability. To preface this analysis, I must be honest with all of you: I was not terribly familiar with Wilco’s music, traditions, live shows, etc, prior to deciding to cover this show. Pretty much all I knew of them, prior to sharing a few iTunes with some friends, was that they were from Chicago and were quite...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / October 31, 2004
Elm Street Liquors. Now, that sounds like a place right out of a horror movie. A leggy blond would snap her stiletto heel while running past the “Elm Street Liquors” flashing neon sign and have to resort to crawling in an attempt to escape her crazed, knife-grasping pursuer. But although this new Gold Coast hotspot may be crawling with leggy blonds on your average weekend night, they definitely aren’t crawling away. The name might bring to mind a barely lit, worn-out storefront, but you will not find a flickering fluorescent sign beckoning you in for deals on domestics here. In...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Libby Pearson / October 31, 2004
There are around a million city-sponsored events celebrating Halloween. It’s almost scary. Go to egov.cityofchicago.org for a full list. Friday, October 29 The Animals and the Law Conference, an international conference on animal welfare standards and disclosure guidelines in the food production industry, takes place today at the Law School, gathering scholars, industry leaders, non-governmental organizations, and the scientific community together. Support academia’s efforts at actually changing policy. (10 a.m.-5 p.m., free. Contact awillard@law.uchicago.edu) Gender Studies will conduct a roundtable discussion on Bondage & Dominance/Sadism & Masochism. And if that ain’t a great lunchtime topic, I don’t know what is. (12:15-11:30 p.m.,...
On ’60s rock ‘n’ roll masterpiece, Stones prove both messianic and satanic
By Andrew Miragliotta / October 31, 2004
Between the death of Brian Jones and the arrival of Mick Taylor, it was fairly possible that the Rolling Stones’ 1969 album Let It Bleed could have been one of their worst. Instead, Mick Jagger and Keith Richards stepped up to the plate, and the result was a crude and bluesy classic that ranks among their top albums. As far as album openers go, “Gimme Shelter” remains a standard in rock. Richards’ ghostly riff provides the backbone of the song, and Merry Clayton lays on her booming vocals to add to Jagger’s apocalyptic vision. It’s almost as if the song...
Cacti and Crying: Looking at Fire Escape’s Latest
By Natan Dotan / October 31, 2004
Two ostensibly documentary films—the latest from the student producers at Fire Escape Films—were shown this past Wednesday. One of the films, Lines in the Sand is a very good documentary; the other, Spilt Milk, while a perfectly fine video art piece, is not a documentary at all. Lines in the Sand is a beautifully filmed portrait of a small Arizona border town called Ajo. Next to the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument Park—voted the most dangerous American national park—and to the north of a town called Gunsight, Ajo is a world away from metropolitan Chicago. The film concentrates on the...
Another take on the Contempo 40th Anniversary Concert
By Eric Benson and Will C. White / October 29, 2004
On Tuesday, October 26, Contempo—formerly known as the Contemporary Chamber Players—held their 40th Anniversary concert at the Chicago Historical Society on the near North Side. Contempo seems to be at a crossroads. Along with its new name, it has stated its desire to expand its audience beyond the University of Chicago (ergo the near North Side venue), and even redefine its musical role. This latter goal was accomplished by the unorthodox programming of the night in which, for the first time, Contempo paired its typical repertoire of contemporary classical music with music from outside the classical domain: jazz. The first...
Warp celebrates 15 years of music videa oddities
By Vincent Choi / October 28, 2004
Warp Vision is a collection of music videos from the past 15 years of the Warp music label—the home of such important-ish electronic-ish musicians such as Autechre, Aphex Twin, Prefuse 73, !!!, Anti-pop Consortium, and Squarepusher. The collection starts off with some danceable segments, then more industrial parts, then crunchier sections that remind you of eating persimmons on a children’s roller coaster ride. Next, the music style heads toward mature beats, most of which still put a large amount of strain on the listener (namely, me). Finally, the movie ends with a nostalgia-filled piece that seems to brutalize itself with...
From Friends to Joey: where NBC went wrong
By Patrick Burke / October 28, 2004
Although NBC’s Friends spin-off (or rather, rip-off) Joey has enjoyed a level of success—attesting to the large-scale cerebral decadence of independent thought within the American public—it still is garnering only 34 percent of its progenitor’s viewers. Under the mistaken impression that anything associated with Friends would immediately inherit its prime-time dominance, NBC executives are distressed and baffled. The collective NBC cerebrum is seemingly incapable of inductive reasoning. The miserable, titanic failures of other spin-offs or rip-offs such as Watching Ellie (based on the Elaine character from “Seinfeld”) should have taught them a lesson by now. Apparently the only case in...
Small-Time Cooks 10-26-04
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / October 28, 2004
Maria was back in the kitchen, and she was showing me some of her tips for making risotto. Fall had come up on me like a mugger in an alley, and I needed some warm food as consolation. Maria’s food did the trick, and we polished it off with some dessert from a local diner. That meal will keep me toasty all week. Basic Risotto Serves 4 3 Tablespoons olive oil 1 medium onion, finely diced 3 cloves garlic, minced 1/3 ounce dried mushrooms 1 cup white cooking wine 1 1/2 cups Arborio rice 6 cups vegetable broth 1 cup...
UT’s ‘Night, Mother successfully shows sick psyche
By Claire Gilbert / October 28, 2004
“Tell them…we just sat around tonight like every other night of our lives, and then I came over and kissed you and said, ‘Night, Mother,’ and you heard me close my bedroom door, and the next thing you heard was the shot.” Put on this past weekend by University Theater (UT), ‘Night, Mother is the sort of theatrical experience that leaves your insides screaming with the horror of life. Jessie, played by Zarina Feinman, coolly reveals within the first ten minutes that she plans on committing suicide in a couple of hours, though she wants to spend the rest of...
Playwright Hughes squeezes humor out of an Angela’s Ashes situation
By Carl Pickerill / October 28, 2004
Geraldine Hughes’ big, bright, Irish-blue eyes—whose radiance she embellishes in Belfast Blues, a play currently in its third weekend at the Mercury Theater—betray a gleam and a certain sense of trepidation amidst her anecdotal account of her childhood in war-torn Belfast of the 1970s and ’80s. The play—a one-person act in which Hughes assumes the role of all 24 characters—starts off deliberate and uneventful. It depicts Hughes’ humble family beginnings in Belfast—complete with a comic scene involving a slow-to-respond father, Geraldine’s frantic, pregnant mother. and an absent-minded family friend trying nearly in vain to cart her off to the hospital....
Two ensembles present compelling collaboration
By Manasi Vydyanath / October 28, 2004
In many ways, the Contempo embody the quintessence of classical music-making in our times —as well as provide a tantalizing glimpse of what they might become. Founded by Ralph Shapey at the University of Chicago in the fall of 1964, the Contemporary Chamber Players were envisaged as a forum for the performance of modern classical music. The result was 40 years of visionary programming, scintillating performances, and groundbreaking premieres. The Contempo are difficult to pin down—they resist facile classification, just as their performances resist categorization. The ensemble itself is essentially composed of a series of collaborations between various artists and...
Pope of Mope pleases fans old and new at the Aragon
By Mehan Jayasuria / October 27, 2004
One never knows quite what to expect at a Morrissey show. While this blanket statement is applicable in any number of ways, let’s start with the most immediately apparent: the audience. By this point, Morrissey’s obsessive fan base draws from so many subcultures that his audiences look about as diverse as a general-population sample. The demographic best represented on Friday night was the “old Morrissey fan”: Between 25 and 40 years of age, looking more like a parent than a concert-goer and possibly sporting an old Moz tour shirt as if it were a badge of honor. Meanwhile, Goths showed...
Get a Life 10-22-04
By Erica Cerulo / October 27, 2004
I grew up in a household where ESPN is more important than CNN, and nobody flinches when they hear the crash of a remote control being chucked across the room. For this reason, watching baseball on TV gives me anxiety, but I love actually going to games. Although I can’t promise that I’ll know the batting average of the next guy up to bat (or even the score some of the time), I guarantee that I could tell you where to find cotton candy or a good hot dog. Last year, my friends and I got ourselves hyped for hot...
Chicago venues showcase classical music talent
By Manasi Vydyanath / October 27, 2004
These are scintillating times: classical music is in a state of unprecedented and unparalleled metamorphosis. Some claim that it will not outlast the next decade. Others maintain that we are in the midst of a renaissance. Even as you read these words, styles are being created, idioms explored, concepts forged, and music is being written that could change the course of what is soon to become history. People could look back at this very moment and trace to it the conception of some of the greatest pieces ever written. The borders of the art form are dissolving, and paradoxically prompting...
After Midnight pays tribute to the silent film era
By Emerald Gao / October 27, 2004
The Mole Antonelliana—located in Turin, Italy—houses the unique, vertically organized Museum of Cinema, which boasts a collection of over 7,000 films representing all periods of cinema—a true Mecca for cinephiles around the world. Against this backdrop, the central story of After Midnight unfolds as part romantic comedy, part tribute to the nuances of silent film. This film, part of the World Cinema series at the Chicago International Film Festival, is a sweet, dreamy feature film by Italian director Davide Ferrario. Its protagonist, Martino, is a night custodian at the museum, and he is very much alone. An old high school...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Jenn Barnes / October 27, 2004
Friday, October 22 That bitch who stole Third Eye Blind singer Stephan Jenkins’s heart away is singing at Park West tonight. Her name is Vanessa Carlton (7:30 p.m., $16.50). Catch the improv comedy troupe Neo-Futurists with a limited-engagement return of 43 Plays for 43 Presidents—if you like it, go again on Saturday night. Their mini-biographies of the presidents should give you a quick dose of American history on speed. (8 p.m., $10, Neo-Futurariam at 5153 North Ashland) Off-Off Campus, the campus improvisation group that annoyed the hell out of us at the RSO fair with something about a banana, begins its Fall...
Mouse on Mars prove that Modest Mouse aren’t the only mice who matter
By Eric Park / October 27, 2004
The land of Germany has always tried its best to inform its international buddies that despite popular perceptions of its culture (i.e. people mired in those Humpty Dumpty suspenders-cum-stockings; perennial obsession with ’80s television icon David Hasselhoff; and that time when it chugged that keg of Fruh Kolsch and decided to go ape-shit on Poland back in ’39), it still knows how to make noise. Other noises, I mean. Germans can not only rev their fast cars on the Autobahn, but can also show off their cool European accents with a certain rotundity no one else can match. Perhaps most...
Playboy receives comeuppance in tepid remake
By Matt Zakosek / October 27, 2004
When an actor speaks directly to the camera, it’s known as “breaking the fourth wall.” Breaking the fourth wall can be an engaging, albeit unconventional, way to interact with the audience. The problem is that very few actors manage to do it well. The only two I can think of off the top of my head are the vastly disparate Ian McKellen in Richard III and Matthew Broderick in Ferris Bueller’s Day Off. Now add to that short list Jude Law, whose turn as the title character in Alfie is alternately charming, unsettling, and infuriating (as called for by the...
German conceptual artist meanders amongst media
By Zoe Stillpass / October 24, 2004
Entering the Kai Althoff show, Kai Kein Respekt (Kai No Respect), at the Museum of Contemporary Art, I felt as if I had walked into a party full of strangers who the host had brought together for some unknown reason. I was disoriented and confused. This retrospective of the young German artist—his first in the U.S.—consists of more than 140 works, executed in a wide variety of media and styles. Moreover, the works are arranged in such an incoherent way that the viewer feels sucked into a strange world of disconnected stories and images. I attempted to tie them all...
Cohen: An exquisitely transparent interpreter
By Alexander Coppock / October 24, 2004
Last Friday night, instead of performing a dazzling all-Czech program at Mandel Hall, pianist Andras Schiff was ill and held up in Europe. In the first of the evening’s many substitutions, Schiff was replaced by Arnaldo Cohen, a Brazilian pianist of considerable credentials. He was the first prize winner of the 1972 Busoni International Piano Competition and has a respectable discography on the Vox and Bis labels. Cohen also has a history of knightly, show-saving heroics: He first made his mark in the European music world by standing in for Martha Argerich at the Concertgebouw. The program of Bach, Brahms,...
Dave Holland Quintet are musical mind readers
By Eric Benson / October 24, 2004
At its best, jazz music fosters a synergy of disparate elements. It is a medium through which the wailing melodies of a saxophone and the deep-grooved rhythms of the drums can understand each other perfectly, even as they speak in foreign tongues. This cohesion of distinct voices defines the music. Jazz is a vehicle for both highly personal expression and seamless collective rapport; each member of a group has a symbiotic relationship with his fellow musicians. He can craft a meaningful solo only if his entire group is responsive to his message. The Dave Holland Quintet, who played a riveting...
Aaltra is breezy, Adam and Eve sleazy at Chicago International Film Festival
By Emerald Gao / October 24, 2004
As the oldest international film competition in North America, the Chicago International Film Festival (CIFF) has kept a tradition of fulfilling two goals: to present new filmmakers and to recognize their artistry and innovation. Tucked in between special screenings of upcoming films (this year it was The Polar Express and Finding Neverland) and critics’ picks are the hidden gems of independent filmmaking. Since we never know if we’ve stumbled across one, the point is to search. An audience favorite at the Rotterdam Film Festival, Aaltra is a Belgian-French road comedy centering around two neighbors whose feud leaves them both wheelchair-bound....
Fond farewell from basement of a forlorn favorite
By Seth Mayer / October 24, 2004
The first Elliott Smith album I bought was a disappointment. Its name was Figure 8, and it didn’t sound like the Elliott Smith I’d first heard while seeing the movie The Royal Tenenbaums. The spare, driving, almost folky sound of “Needle in the Hay” that made Richie Tenenbaum’s suicide attempt all the more devastating had been replaced by a more melodic, poppy style. My initial reaction was annoyance; then I went out, bought his earlier, more lo-fi release Either/Or, declared myself an Elliott Smith fan, and never looked back at Figure 8’s Beach Boys and Beatles-influenced pop. Around a year...
A shocking thing about Manson CD: It doesn’t suck
By Matt Zakosek / October 17, 2004
That Marilyn Manson sure knows how to get your ears bleeding. While I can within good conscience recommend his latest disc, Lest We Forget: The Best of, only the most supremely masochistic would attempt to get through it in one sitting. Which is fitting, because this surely constitutes a wide portion of Manson’s fan base: purple-mascara’d Goths for whom lyrics like “I’m a black rainbow” are a salve to their tortured, misunderstood teenage souls. But maybe I’m not being fair. It would be easy to write a pithy, sarcastic review deriding Manson for his over-the-top showmanship—but sometime in the midst...
Eccentric actor brings even the worst roles to life
By Alexander Rocha / October 17, 2004
On October 9, the Chicago International Film Festival presented “An Evening With Christopher Walken,” which featured a screening of the new movie Around the Bend and an interview with, yes, Christopher Walken. Around the Bend is a disappointing movie—not a bad one—that starts strong, but slowly slips into increasingly disparate strands of maudlin sentiment and faux-zany antics. It tells the tale of the Lair men, a paternal lineage ranging from the terminal Henry (Michael Caine) to the absentee Turner (Walken) to the uptight Jason (Josh Lucas) to the precocious young Zach (Jonah Bobo). Turner’s unexpected arrival on the doorstep prompts...
Get a Life – 10-15-04
By Erica Cerulo / October 17, 2004
“I don’t think I really like him anymore,” my friend sighed. She had been enamored with this guy for quite some time, therefore I was rather anxious to hear what led to the change of heart. “Erica, today he wore a jean jacketwith jeans.” Gasp. What could I say? I mean, could I honestly tell her that this fashion faux pas was not grounds for reconsideration? She had dated a boy that wore tapered cargo jeans, but she had learned from her mistakes. These are things that girls seriously consider. Intelligent, grounded girls, at least. Guys have the amazing ability...
CD Shortcuts
By The Editors and Ghost Rider / October 17, 2004
CAKE – Pressure Chef – Sony I didn’t even realize that Cake had a new CD out until last Friday, when someone brought it through the checkout line at Borders. As I freed it from its plastic keeper and passed it on to its new owner, I had no idea that my very own copy was awaiting me home, a surprise gift from my boyfriend who thought I’d enjoy it (and then burn him a copy, obviously). Thus began my love affair with Pressure Chief, the latest album from the band that brought you “Rock ‘n’ Roll Lifestyle” all those...
Voices STD – 10-15-04
By Libby Pearson / October 17, 2004
Friday, October 15 Haven’t been to Millennium Park yet? What’s holding you back?! Dave Eggers, author of A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius, is introducing Dr. and Mr. Haggis-on-Whey, who will discuss their latest work, Your Disgusting Head (7 p.m., free, Jay Pritzker Pavilion) One really fluffy camel will be making several appearances at Doc Films. This heartwarming tale of Mongolian mother and baby camels brings chuffsters to the big screen in Story of the Weeping Camel. Needless to say, it requires a little patience. (7 p.m., 9 p.m., 11 p.m., $4, Max Palevsky Cinema) Morrissey is at the Aragon Ballroom ($35,...
Taking break from acting career, icon of alt-rap returns with bold new album
By Andy Marchesseault / October 17, 2004
Both Mos Def’s new album, The New Danger, and his 1999 solo debut, Black on Both Sides, begin with the same words, spoken before any music hits the listener’s ears. Though I am not aware of their source, I can only assume that this brief incantation is some kind of Muslim prayer, reflecting the spirituality that Mos Def wears proudly on his sleeve. These words, however, are one of the few direct links between the two albums, records separated not only by exactly five years, but also by changed values, modified musical convictions, and seemingly a lifetime of experience. Perhaps...
Student filmmakers bring their edgy idea to life
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 17, 2004
When asked to describe the script of Fire Escape Films’ newest project, And the Pursuit of Happiness, director Will Slocombe simply said “ballsy.” If it’s possible for ballsy to be a euphemism, it may describe a movie about a U.S. Congressman who has sex with bonobo monkeys, urinates on traffic lights, and mutilates himself in rather unpleasant areas. For such daring subject matter, however, two second-years with a crazy idea received $10,000 for a 33-minute movie—part of the exponential growth of student filmmaking at the University of Chicago over the past few years. Started in 1995, Fire Escape Films only...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / October 6, 2004
Mark was busy all week training the young guns at the restaurant and tailing thugs, so I rarely saw him. He did show up at my door one evening with flowers and groceries, though. I put on some music, and he rolled up his sleeves. Dinner was smooth, perfect for a romantic evening. We followed it up with a little dancing at a local dive where the jazz is always swell, and then a little dancing back at his place where the dancing is always better than the tunes. Savory Dal for Lentil Pie or Toasted Pita with Lentils 1...
Romanticism’s finest dazzles at Symphony Hall
By Manasi Vydyanath / October 6, 2004
The evening opened with Maurice Ravel’s Piano Concerto for left hand in D, one of his most turbulent pieces. Composed in 1931, it is more of an extended cadenza than a concerto; the orchestra exists merely to highlight the piano, which gives vent to tormented, virtuoso passages and desperate lyrical flights that almost threaten to tear apart the keyboard. The collaboration between pianist Jean-Yves Thibaudet and conductor Charles Dutoit resulted in a compelling, if fragmented, performance. Thibaudet made up in energy what he lacked in expressiveness. He brought a refreshing rhythmic vitality to the piece—with spiky chords, brilliant syncopations and...
Desperate for good TV? Get Lost in ABC’s fall slate
By Davin Essex / October 6, 2004
In the era of the reality show, the art form of the scripted television show has been nearly destroyed. With a few exceptions (24, Arrested Development, The OC, and the shows of HBO) TV has been barren of good scripted shows, especially the anti-reality subgenre: the well-written, guilt-inducing, absurd, interesting, trashy television show. That ABC has pulled out of its hat not one but two different shows possibly worthy of the phrase “promising” is an impressive trick. For starters Lost, brought to you by J. J. Abrams of Felicity and Alias, takes everyone’s favorite desert island fantasy and rubs it...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / October 6, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, I find myself in a singular, somewhat distressing situation. I appear to have a certain charm for cats (felines, naturally) and whenever I am in their presence, they fill the air with their plaintive cries and very sensual purring.  It seems they can’t get enough of me.  But with women, I’m down on my luck.  How would you suggest I translate my success with cats to, err, women? Lost in a Feline Paradise Dear Lost, As far as Lila Pearl has observed, cats and women desire fairly different things out of a relationship, and what charms one...
New Waters flick gives bad taste a bad name
By Matt Zakosek / October 6, 2004
Hey, guess what? Sex can be boring. No one should know this better than John Waters, the legendary shock auteur behind such pieces of filth as Pink Flamingoes and (my personal favorite) Serial Mom. Waters has cultivated a modest reputation as an interesting independent filmmaker, someone who can occasionally craft absorbing situations and characters while reveling in the lowest common denominator. It’s a dirty shame, then, that his latest work, A Dirty Shame, is such a failure. It’s a flat-out bore, unable to generate more than a few pitiful chuckles as it limps to its disappointing conclusion. Some critics have...
Don’t miss Mizoguchi: 10-film retrospective at Doc
By Hildy Johnson / October 6, 2004
This fall, campus movie fans have the rare opportunity to get an in-depth look at one of the most revered artists in the history of film. On Wednesday nights through December 1, Doc Films is presenting a 10-film retrospective of the works of the great Japanese director, Kenji Mizoguchi (1898-1956). Who was Mizoguchi? Ask hardcore film types and they’ll get a beatific, faraway look in their eyes. A few will all but light up the incense sticks, drop to their knees, and start moaning that they’re “not worthy.” But ask most normal people—even the most well-educated and culturally savvy ones—and...
Rilo Kiley a tough act to precede at Abbey Pub
By Seth Mayer / October 6, 2004
How do you open for a band like Rilo Kiley? Opening bands are supposed to get crowds in the mood for the main act. Opening bands are supposed to sound a lot like the headliner, but not be quite as good. Opening bands are all about sparking the energy that should, hopefully, run throughout the show. So who could have opened for Rilo Kiley at Abbey Pub last Thursday night? What band could have created the right mood for a band with so many varying tones and emotions? And thinking of someone who plays catchy, occasionally explosive rock music with...
“Brick” balladeer swings between styles on new EP
By Ashley Trotter / October 2, 2004
The second I began listening to Ben Folds’ Super D EP I knew I had happened upon something special. A lively beat burst through my subwoofer filling the room with energy. Immediately I wanted to get up and dance. As a cover of the Darkness’s song “Get Your Hands Off My Woman” came on the beat still kept me interested, as did the extreme piano for which Ben Folds is known. To my disappointment the lyrics were not so entertaining. Consisting of a string of peacefully sung “motherfuckers” it sounded like an opera gone horribly wrong. Fortunately, I would not...
Two great Chicago finds: Sweet rolls and gumbo
By Elizabeth Rossi / October 2, 2004
Heaven on Seven I’d use any excuse as a child to eat at Heaven on Seven. Driving downtown with my mother to shop at Marshall Field’s or visit the tailor, I’d casually introduce lunch into the conversation, even if it was only 10:30 in the morning. Anything for a cup of steaming gumbo with a broth so thick and spicy it made my nose run. And if I was very good, I might even be allowed a slice of chocolate-pecan pie for dessert. We went so often that the waiters knew me by name and my mother’s order by heart:...
Renditions of Mozart and Bernstein fun, if brief
By Deirdre Kelly / October 2, 2004
Perhaps the Chicago Symphony Orchestra concerts to which to look forward the most this season will be those which Daniel Barenboim is scheduled to conduct but will withdraw from due to health issues. Stepping in for Barenboim this past Friday were conductor David Robertson and pianist Orli Shaham. Robertson, who is set to become music director of the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra in 2005, brought an elegant vitality to the two Mozart pieces that opened the program. First was Mozart’s Symphony No. 29 in A Major. This early work, written when Mozart was 17, is arguably one of the first in...
Punk Revisited: Green Day lays bold new ground with American Idiot
By Ethan Stanislawski / October 2, 2004
As hard as it may be to imagine, when Green Day released Dookie, their first major-label album, the Class of 2008 was in the second grade. After 10 years, it is now safe to consider Green Day an establishment in the pop music world, a fate that is hard to reconcile with the anti-establishment attitude on which punk enthusiasts thrive. Green Day have been called sell-outs by the underground scene for years, and that status seems to increase with every album they release. With their last album, the disappointing Warning, Green Day were beginning to lose their mainstream fans as...
Matt picks the best (and worst) movies of the summer
By Matt Zakosek / October 2, 2004
It was the best of times; it was the worst of times. There were plenty of great films worth their weight in popcorn consumption this summer. On the flip side, though, there were a few so horrible that they almost made staying at home and watching reality TV sound enticing. It managed to be a controversial summer as well. For example, a few of you might think my first selection belongs on the opposite list The 5 Best Films of Summer 2004 5. The Village The most reviled film of the summer, The Village was actually a serviceably spooky thriller...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / October 2, 2004
There was a time when everyone wanted the cool shoes. You can try to deny it, but I know that you too once wanted a pair of L.A. Lights with purple and pink stars or Reebok Pumps that you could play with until the high-tech pumping “mechanism” broke. My little brother’s desire for the hip kicks was so fierce that—back in the day when our feet were the same size—he actually bought a pair of old, beat-up Doc Marten sandals off of me (and we’re not talking the masculine-looking variety either). I’d like to say that we eventually grow out...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Libby Pearson / October 2, 2004
Friday, October 1 Catch K Records’ Mirah at the Texas Ballroom (3012 S. Archer Ave.), touring in support of the fantastic C’Mon Miracle. Tara Jane O’Neil will be opening. 8 p.m., $8, all ages. Eleven current MFA students at Chicago will be displaying their work encompassing “a diverse range of media and forms” in an exhibition entitled 11 Pack*, which opens today with a reception from 6 to 10 p.m. The event is at 4Art Inc. (1932 S. Halsted, unit 100), and the exhibition will be open until October 21. Oktoberfest at Coq d’Or (140 E. Walton) brings you authentic...
At the Warped Tour this summer, group pus on Sunday best
By James Corcoran / October 2, 2004
Warped Tour: the place where suburban teenage girls’ dreams come true. On Saturday, July 24, I headed down to the Tweeter Center in Tinley Park to check out the 10th annual Warped Tour and interview one the biggest bands on the tour—Taking Back Sunday. The monstrous venue was sold out and crawling with scenesters and suburban kids wearing their favorite bands’ T-shirts (although the smart ones only wore shirts of their favorite bands not on the Warped Tour). The tour featured over 80 bands on eight stages (with names ranging from Teal Stage to the Kevin Says Stage, named for...
World premieres and the importance of listening
By Manasi Vydyanath / September 18, 2004
Every premiere could potentially be the concert, unveiling a work that precipitates the present into the past, and forges infinitely many futures in its own image. A concert that presents a groundbreaking advancement not only of expression, but the very nature of expression. Reviewing new music is consequently one of the most important and exciting facets of music journalism. As the inimitable Virgil Thomson once said, “[This] is where criticism touches history.” However, by its own evidence, history has seldom been made without controversy. On February 4, 1923, Arnold Schoenberg’s Pierrot Lunaire received its American premiere in New York City,...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / September 18, 2004
My name’s Mark. Mark Whisk. I’m a private eye. But I’m also a chef. I’m a detective by day, and I stir things up at night at a classy joint downtown. But every week, this beautiful dame Maria and I get together and spice things up in the kitchen. I was teaching the young guns at the restaurant some basics this week, and since my PI workload was small, my main case was gathering up ingredients and supplies with my dame. Here’s a quick rundown of the case so far. Before you can cook, you need food and the right...
Becky Sharp is regally bland in Mira Nair’s eastern take on Vanity Fair
By Matt Zakosek / September 18, 2004
Finally, some truth in advertising. Vanity Fair does prove to be the perfect vehicle for megastar Reese Witherspoonjust probably not in the way the filmmakers intended. If this is, as some of the ads have touted, “the performance of her career,” it’s indicative of a career that has gotten less and less impressive as her choice in roles has floundered. The girl can act—we’ve known that since her 1991 debut in the non-Andy-Kaufman Man in the Moon—but since then she’s specialized in performances that are over-the-top at best and cartoonish at worst. Her first time ’round as Elle Woods, the...
British MC finds his voice on follow-up album
By Andy Marchesseault / September 18, 2004
Like any kid who keeps his ear to the music underground, while keeping a safe distance from anything resembling The Scene, I check pitchforkmedia.com pretty much daily. Admittedly, when I was 19 and naïve, I took most everything that Pitchfork’s writers said as gospel; the labels of “awesome” and “sucks” applied to various new releases might as well have been dropped on stone tablets from above. I took my musical cues from the oft-pretentious, harshly critical site, tossing aside Rolling Stone and Spin as musical gospel when they started to lose their credibility and, well, general quality. Pitchfork not only...
Aural Pleasure does the Time Warp
By Dave Maher / July 2, 2004
Hi folks, and welcome to the newest attraction here at Chicago Maroon Voices Park—The Time Warp: Behind the Music Journalist. It’s a mind-bending indoor roller-coaster adventure into the depths of a new music journalist’s brain every week. This week, our featured writer is the self-deprecating, brutally honest, and occasionally funny Dave Maher. I happen to know that Dave is doing some spri—er, summer cleaning, so this should be a pretty wild ride. Now before we get started, let me just warn you that because of the scattered and prolific nature of Dave’s thoughts, this ride will not be suitable for...
The Decemberists are smarter than you, and better at playing the accordion
By Dan Berkovitz / July 2, 2004
About a month and a half ago, I spoke to Colin Meloy, lead singer of the Decemberists. Mr. Meloy writes the songs, and has a degree in creative writing. “Do you ever think you’ll write again?” I asked him, but I quickly caught myself—”write prose again.” Now, audibly flustered, I backtracked: “Because what you’re doing is writing. Writing songs, I mean, is writing. Songwriting.” And this is true. Songs are poems, and Meloy is penning epics. Notably, the band’s most recent release, The Tain, is a single eighteen-minute track in five movements. It features both searing guitar and accordion solos....
Focused and lively, Carqueville always gave complete effort
By Joe Katz / June 8, 2004
If the women’s soccer team’s run to the national championship game left an indelible mark on the new face of University of Chicago athletics, it no doubt left the team with memories that will last a lifetime. As the graduating seniors on the team look back on their four intense years of academic work, they will also remember being part of one of the most gifted athletic teams ever to take the field at this university. For some the road has been easy, while for others, like Christine Carqueville, overcoming adversity and keeping a sense of humor has been a...
Determination and dedication propelled Raptis
By Sean Ahmed / June 8, 2004
One of the toughest challenges in sports is to step up and improve oneself when the team needs it. Football and baseball star Jim Raptis is on example of a player that has made an indelible mark on the record books without necessarily having the natural tools associated with athletic excellence. It’s hard to imagine that a player who owns six school records in football and two in baseball wasn’t always considered a sure bet, but Raptis, with his insatiable attitude for winning, came a long way to merit a mention as one of the Maroons’ best of all time....
Saved! asks WWJD: What Would Jena Do?
By Matt Zakosek / June 8, 2004
I’m so glad Saved! came out the same year as The Passion of the Christ. I’m not one of those people who vehemently hated The Passion. Oddly enough, I had the same reaction to it that I had to Kill Bill: Vol. 2. Both films are mostly a waste of time, but there are a few touching scenes in each of them to save them from being completely irredeemable. Saved! is a movie I enjoyed much more thoroughly. The story is hilarious, the jokes are mostly spot-on, and the cast is top-notch—yes, even Macaulay Culkin. Mandy Moore shows that she...
Adventurous Chicago jazz trio pays homage in homecoming shows
By Madeleine Bair / June 8, 2004
If there is any single element that can define a certain “Chicago sound” in the diverse array of instrumental music coming out of the Windy City today, it would be that of creative exploration, and consequential indescribability. There is no real “Chicago sound” per se that defines the music, but more accurately a web of influences and interconnections that binds various backgrounds and influences at multiple points and continuously stretches, expands, and reconnects. Chicago’s Association for the Advancement of Creative Music (AACM), which was founded in the 1960s to challenge the limits of what was considered music, jazz, and even...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Peter Robinett / June 8, 2004
All right, this is the last calendar of the year. I know everyone’s working hard right now, but maybe you’ve got to let off steam or you’re done early. Anyway, check out the stuff below. Of course, the big event for many people is something called “graduation,” but I don’t think you go to that for entertainment. Friday, June 4 Danger Mouse with Jemini and J-Roc at the Logan Square Auditorium, 8:30 p.m, $12 advance, $15 at the door. Danger Mouse, of Grey Album fame, stops in Chicago. Chicago Gospel Music Festival, Grant Park, starts at 4 p.m. (also 11:45...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / June 8, 2004
The best song of the last three years, and the most beautiful response to any of the horrible American tragedies to occur during that time, was recorded by Fred Durst and Johnny Rzeznik. Incidentally: Fred Durst is the lead cretin of Limp Bizkit, possibly the worst band ever, and Johnny Rzeznik of the Goo Goo Dolls is an ersatz Jon Bon Jovi. Once the accounts are settled, Durst will be shown to have done more damage to American popular culture than pretty much anyone alive, and Rzeznik will be utterly forgotten. The song they recorded was Pink Floyd’s “Wish You...
CSO and Motet Choir breathe life into Stravinsky’s Symphony of Psalms
By Miguel J. Ramirez / June 8, 2004
The Russian composer Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971) is generally regarded as one of the most original and versatile artists in the history of Western music. His output includes practically all the important genres cultivated in the twentieth century: ballet, chamber music, opera, symphony, cantata, oratorio, song, and piano music as well as new, across-the-lines vocal and instrumental genres. At various moments in his career, Stravinsky made use of a variety of musical resources, techniques, forms, and elements—ranging from the splendor of Baroque fugue to the intricacies of serialism. He believed that each composition had to be created “anew,” according to a...
Do not attempt to adjust your television set: There are no Asians here
By Joel Lanceta / June 8, 2004
Feeling Friends withdrawal? Yes, what is the world to do now that the Central Perk sextet has left the building, and possibly to other, not-so lucrative acting gigs? In the case of most of America, they’ll mourn, they’ll buy the season seven DVD, and they’ll continue watching it endlessly in reruns. However, since I never really liked the show to begin with, I am now free to bitch about the show and my main gripe: If it was set in New York, where was the diversity? Hell, I’ll cut to the chase—where were all the Asian people? I’ve been to...
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / June 8, 2004
False Start #1: Last week I was going to write an in-depth analysis of the new Pedro the Lion album, Achilles Heel. In the original plan, this week’s column was then supposed to be a nice introduction to the summer, possibly centered around the track list for the summer mix CD I would make. However, after being necessarily shafted by the alumni issue last week (and thus unable to write my amazing Pedro review), finding myself currently more concerned with passing my classes than choosing songs for a mix (for once), and feeling flabby and out of practice from the...
Glen Flora Ensemble parodies Haydn
By Manasi Vydyanath / June 8, 2004
It was an intriguing concert—executed with a superb sense of programmatic counterpoint. The Glen Flora Ensemble commenced with Haydn’s charming trio in D-major. At the heart of the work lies a captivating ingenuity, something that pianist Elizabeth Buccheri seemed curiously unwilling to portray. She chose to give a reading that focussed on elements of Sturm und Drang and tempestuous passion—attempting to project facets of Haydn that the piece was not really designed to represent. The result was less a depiction of Haydn’s aesthetic totality than a fragmentation of artistic vision in the performance (especially when the flautist’s interpretation seemed to...
Fancy-pants Game Boy makes latest Final Fantasy all the sweeter
By Dan Kenis / June 8, 2004
Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles is not a traditional entry in the Final Fantasy series. Final Fantasy games—there are 11 of them so far—are story-driven games that are almost invariably about a blade-wielding pretty-boy hero who must save a fantasy world from an overarching evil force by teaming up with other warriors and sorcerers, learning how to summon monsters, finding ancient technology and an airship, and all the while confronting his own mysterious past. Crystal Chronicles contains many of the tropes of the series, as well as a lot of its memorable creatures, spells, and its very beautiful aesthetics, but it’s...
Ivan takes a suprisingly bright walk on the dark side with Jamie Stewart
By Ivan Khilko / June 8, 2004
A couple of months ago, I conducted an interview with a singer and songwriter of the band Xiu Xiu before they played at the Fireside. I was very much expecting Jamie Stewart to be one of the most disturbing people I’ve ever met, considering the subject matter in his songs: Incest, violence, self-hatred, terminal disease, etc.—all delivered in the tone of someone suffering a nervous breakdown. On the contrary, Jamie turned out to be really nice and very easy to converse with. Ivan: I’d like to start out by saying that you guys are basically the first rock band I’ve...
The Stills: A killer opening band good for more than just killing time
By Paul Mantz / June 8, 2004
I usually disdain watching no-name bands open for the band I show up to see. You can never tell who is going to rock your world, and who is going to bomb. When I went to see Interpol, I had the luck to be introduced to the Stills that night—but the band that started the show was so grating to the ears that I’m glad that their name is struck from my memory. And I tried to like Pinebender when they opened for Death Cab for Cutie, but…I just couldn’t. This time, however, the opening bands gave me a very...
Shortcuts
By Andrew Marchesseault / June 8, 2004
The Beta Band Heroes to Zeros Astralwerks By Andy Marchessault Like many, I first got into the Beta Band through that shameless promotion in the John Cusack vehicle High Fidelity. Cusack plays the owner of a hip record store in Chicago, and at one point he drops the needle on “Dry the Rain,” the first track on The Three EP’s. A six-minute epic that sounds longer, the song introduces the Betas’ signature sound, which combines heavy bass, drums, electronic gimmickry, and a knack for a great melody. Cusack says something to the effect of “Now four people will come up...
Winston adapts fairy tale for the Grimm surrounding of Ida Noyes
By Libby Pearson / May 25, 2004
For his senior project, Mark Winston decided to adapt three Grimm Brothers tales to music. After bringing a few students on board, the project has grown extensively to include dancers, costumes, and stilts. The piece will be performed this Saturday as part of FOTA. Winston took an adaptation of The Seven Ravens, The Twelve Sons, and The Six Swans as his story. The music and dancers, without words or vocal parts, portray a married couple who have seven sons but lack a daughter. The father kills his sons, and a daughter is born. She finds out that she had brothers...
Mutter-Previn-Harrell Trio burst onto U.S. scene with works by the greats
By Nicholas Betson / May 25, 2004
When contrasting musical personalities join forces, the result is often mixed. Such seems to be the case with the newly formed Mutter-Previn-Harrell Trio, now making their debut U.S. tour. The antipodes of this group are pianist André Previn and violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter. Previn—whose smaller stature mirrors his soft-spoken style on the piano—is surely the “passive-aggressive” of the group. And Mutterlet’s just say Anne-Sophie Mutter has a stage-presence that is hard to miss even if one is not listening to the music. Indeed, one perhaps listens in spite of this presence. There are two possible pitfalls of such a scenario. First,...
Lerche conducts Two Way Monologue with crowd
By Brad Heffern / May 25, 2004
You’ve probably heard about Sondre Lerche recently. 2002’s brilliant Faces Down put the Norwegian boy wonder on the map, and this year’s Two Way Monologue has done far better than anyone expected, earning recommendations from the likes of Rolling Stone and Spin. However, someone should have expected it. Lerche is basically the indie singer/songwriter version of Frank Sinatra, and things turned out pretty good for that guy. He has that “I-meant-to-be-talking-but-I-ended-up-singing” croon that is both comforting and musical. Additionally, he is such a talented songwriter that one almost doesn’t notice it. The songs seem to float by—until you realize you’re...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / May 25, 2004
“Loving Chicago is like loving a woman with a broken nose”—Nelson Algren I finally completed the process of moving on up. These days I work on the 29th floor of an architecturally significant office building in downtown Chicago amongst wealthy lawyers who openly discuss unimaginable sums of money, out loud, with their doors open to the world, either showing off or demonstrating how unimportant said sums are. Both, I guess. Actually what I’m doing there is copy editing. But that’s fine—I still get the view and the free drinks. Did you know that, if you’re broke, you can turn two...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / May 25, 2004
At the end of a long week, one of my pals in the cooking industry had a dinner party. He made some of his favorite recipes that his friends showed him how to make, and Maria and I pitched in with a couple of dishes. Here are some of our favorites from that night. These first three recipes all serve many. Hannah’s Apple and Blue Cheese Salad 2 heads Romaine lettuce 2 cups crushed walnuts 6 ounces blue cheese 1 Granny Smith apple Dressing: 2 Tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1/2 Tablespoon sugar dash of salt and pepper 1/4 cup vegetable...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / May 25, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, As Uncle Joe’s regulars for the past three years, we’ve had the privilege of observing the various Sexual Cultures of the second floor coffee shop and the corresponding Geographies to which its various Types of Patrons flock. To simplify: There are the flirty pool boys (in the middle, by the pool tables), the staff sexual cesspool (by the counter), and the Back of the Shop antisocial types. Now, here are our questions, Ms. Pearl: Given the Sexual Cesspools of Uncle Joe’s, would you say that there are other similarly divided spots within the Oceanic-Whole-of-U of C-Sexual Cesspool...
Kremerata Baltica Quintet taste perfection with rendition of Shostakovich
By Manasi Vydyanath / May 24, 2004
The concert opened with a shadowy 12-tone row that shimmered forth from the viola, whispering of possibilities made poignant because they could not exist. The ghostly fragments drifted into the upper strings, transforming themselves into a yearning contemplation in minor seconds and major ninths. The outlines dissolved, and in the spectral silence that followed, a glowing, infinitely fragile image of the original row emerged from the first violin—a variation that flickered and throbbed with the sense of its own ephemerality. This was a deceptive fragility. It defied the incipient chasms of silence and developed into the second subject in D...
Its no Foxtrot, but Wilco shuffles with style on Ghost
By Andrew Marchesseault / May 21, 2004
Let me preface this review by saying that the new Wilco album will not be officially released for about a month. That said, it might seem a bit premature for me to be reviewing an album that won’t see the light of day until June 22. Not so, however. As is the case with most highly anticipated albums released in our era of Soulseek and Kazaa, A Ghost is Born, Wilco’s fifth studio album, was leaked online just after the final mixes for the record were completed. So, in actuality, this review is about a month and a half past...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / May 21, 2004
I’ve noticed an abundance of really bizarre—and at times misleading—ads on TV lately. There is this one promoting Skippy bars with dancing elephants wearing “bling” (this per their advertising agency, mind you). This commercial wouldn’t be nearly as bad as it is if it gave you any information as to what, exactly, a Skippy bar is. Then there is this ad for some type of pregnancy test that promises early detection. It claims, “There is such a thing as being a little bit pregnant.” For whatever reason, I don’t remember learning that in fifth grade sex ed. Can you imagine...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Peter Robinett / May 21, 2004
Well, first off, let me say that I goofed in last week’s column. The Festival of the Arts (FOTA) starts this week, so that means that the opening party is today, not last week. Sorry about that. There’s a lot of stuff happening at the U of C this weekend, thanks to Summer Breeze and FOTA. And, as always, don’t forget University Theater productions like The Medium, running through Saturday, and Off-Off, running through next week. Friday, May 21 Festival of the Arts Opening, Smart Museum, 9 p.m. (for real this time!). The annual two-week festival begins tonight. Check out...
Summer Breeze under the radar: WHPK has show that might top MAB’s
By Erica Feldman / May 21, 2004
It’s late May, the weather is getting warmer, and campus is once again bedecked with the multitude of glossy, hyper-colored posters that forecast Summer Breeze at the University of Chicago. What exactly is Summer Breeze? Judging by the variety of different posters and flyers all over campus—and by these posters’ listing of diverse events, which run the gamut from Jell-O wresting to Doc’s outdoor film screening—many different things are included under the Summer Breeze heading. I’d hazard a guess, though, that if you were to stop a random student on 57th Street and ask them what exactly Summer Breeze was,...
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / May 21, 2004
A letter to my friend Ruth Martin (after receiving the copy of Sleater-Kinney’s Dig Me Out that she mail-ordered for me) Dear Ruth, After sleeping through Italian yet again, the first thing I did after waking Monday morning (at 12:30 p.m.; I guess it was technically the afternoon) was check my e-mail. To my surprise, I saw that I had received one of those package notification messages from the front desk here at Pierce. I looked to see where the package was from and saw “kill rock stars” entirely in lowercase letters, and I thought of you. I know that...
P1xel rocks and acrobats shock, but Voris and Vox proves vexing on Midway
By Peter Robinett / May 21, 2004
The Vorris and Vox student circus came to town this weekend, putting on two performances last Saturday (a third, on Friday night, was canceled due to weather). The circus is composed almost entirely of U of C students, and puts on an annual show at the start of the Festival of the Arts. The Columbian Exposition of 1893 (the one which saw the construction of the Midway and many other Chicago landmarks) was the theme for the circus’ third annual show. OK, let me say this first: I love the idea of a student circus trying to push the bounds...
No Primadonna, von Dohnanyi surpasses the Britney of classical conducting
By David Bashwiner / May 21, 2004
Today’s conductors are superstars. They are the Britney Spearses of the classical music world. They work hard—at least as hard as their pop counterparts—and so they earn a lot of money. Britney Spears earned $39.2 million in 2002, according to Forbes. Daniel Barenboim, head conductor of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, earned $2.16 million for his duties with the CSO in the fiscal year ending in June 2002, according to the Chicago Tribune. He earns about one 20th of what Britney earns, and twenty times as much as an orchestral violinist. So he may be no Britney Spears, but he is...
Troy’s plot is skimpier than one of Brad Pitt’s leather skirts, but that’s not so bad
By Matt Johnston / May 21, 2004
I think we were all excited about this one. That is, those of us who enjoy a healthy dose of schadenfreude were. When the rumors first began to circulate that Hollywood was adapting The Iliad for the big screen, there were hopes that the result would be an epic for the ages. (Perhaps not quite as many ages as Homer’s original, but we can’t be too picky.) I even remember discussions about how Homer’s use of metaphors and similes might be incorporated in a film. Where Homer compares a warrior’s death to the falling of a tree, would the movie...
Conference examines media
By Joel Lanceta / May 18, 2004
John Nichols, Washington correspondent for the liberal magazine The Nation, spoke at the International House on Friday, May 14, beginning his speech by saying he was honored to be the replacement for journalist Seymour Hersh, the original speaker. “Seymour Hersh is not the greatest journalist of our time, but possibly the greatest journalist of all time,” Nichols said about Hersh, the journalist who broke the My Lai massacre during Vietnam and is currently investigating the Iraqi prison abuse. Nichols then described a conversation he had with Hersh two weeks ago about Iraq as “chilling.” “The best analogy I heard when...
The Art Ensemble of Chicago
By Nick Morrison / May 18, 2004
If you were at Mandel Hall last Friday, you do not need to read this—in fact, you probably shouldn’t, given the tendency of words to fail in these kinds of situations. If you weren’t there, you should know in advance that nothing that I write here can communicate to you the experience of the Art Ensemble’s decadent, gorgeous concert. This decadence and decay is—like the pomp of a royal line at the end of its days—splendid to behold. Although there were only six musicians on stage, the entire stage area of Mandel Hall was brimming over with elaborate racks of...
Would you like fries with that? Spurlock speaks
By Matt Zakosek / May 18, 2004
I’m always afraid before I meet someone in the film industry. This is because I want to be in the film industry so badly that I’m afraid I’ll scream, “I love you sooooo much!” before beaning the filmmaker over the head with my unproduced screenplay. I shouldn’t have worried about meeting Morgan Spurlock, winner of the coveted Best Director prize at Sundance for his hot new documentary Super Size Me. No, Spurlock didn’t read my screenplay (his loss) but he was incredibly gracious, kind, and funny. In my review of Super Size Me last week, I wrote, “Spurlock himself is...
Reverend of rockabilly heats up Metro show with Southern Sleaze
By Mara Stankiewicz / May 18, 2004
From a band whose album Liquor in the Front is subtitled “Poker in the Back” and whose finest lyrics include, “I got a wiggle stick, momma, and you’ll like it a lot,” one might expect a riotous performance onstage. After all, one doesn’t go to a rockabilly revival show without expecting several kitschy moments and at least two eruptions of sleaziness. Such was not the case at the Metro on Friday night for Reverend Horton Heat, who headlined the show that also featured Split Lip Rayfield and the Detroit Cobras. While the Reverend did liven up by the second half...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / May 18, 2004
I’m just going to be honest: I haven’t slept because I played sports video games for seven hours last night. I’m in a less pleasant mood than when I dropped 66 points with fake Joey Harrington. Anyway, some choice aesthetics: 1. iPod headphones Unfortunately, the choice phrase “yuppie jewelry” has already been coined and deployed by the Maroon’s own Karlis Kandero, but it’s worth repeating, as these are quickly becoming a scourge at the U of C (and throughout finer establishments in Chicago). In the six months to one year that it takes for iPods to be surpassed by superior,...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / May 18, 2004
I decided to take some time off from the detective game. A few large colleagues of mine didn’t take to being followed. I didn’t like the way they argued with me. It was no brains and all brawn, if you get my drift. I decided to kick back with Maria and enjoy some cooking. After a weekend of watching baseball and relaxing, Maria and I were back to work in the kitchen. Maria had some good pesto at a local Italian place that she wanted to make again, and I wanted to use some fresh peaches and strawberries to make...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / May 18, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, I have just discovered that my boyfriend is a loser. He cheated on me. He’s mean. He owes me over $200. He hit on my best friend at a party. He sucks. Only trouble is, I have no idea how to break up with someone. Any suggestions? —Anxious to Exit Dear Anxious, Consider this: The fog thickened, and the last hint of shoreline disappeared. “Harry,” I hissed, trying to stare over the bow, “did you hear that?” “I can’t hear a thing in this muck. I can’t see anything,” Harry mumbled, his voice muffled by the wind...
Lights, camera, activism! Doc shows the work of humanitarian Herbert Kline
By Mike Robinson / May 18, 2004
Doc Films proudly announces a special screening of Herbert Kline’s groundbreaking films Heart of Spain (1937), Lights Out in Europe (1940), and The Forgotten Village (1941) on Saturday, May 22 at 2 p.m. These three documentaries examine the Spanish Civil War, the coming of the Second World War, and life in rural Mexico from a liberal ideological position, and with overwhelming humanitarianism. With contemporaries like his associate Joris Ivens, Herbert Kline applied the methods and perspective of the leftist documentary film movement of the 1930s to current international events, aspiring to serve as the foreign correspondent of motion pictures. While...
Dan Bejar: hero of his own tragic pop production
By Andy Marchesseault / May 15, 2004
“I approach touring with a certain amount of dread,” says Dan Bejar. We are in the basement of the Empty Bottle, that great music club in Wicker Park, and sitting on couches that might belong in any fraternity on campus. Except for the graffiti scrawled across the walls—saying things like “TV on the Radio was here”—this cellar room exudes the comforting vibe of your dingy den back home. But it’s not an adequate facsimile for Dan Bejar; perhaps nothing really is. “It’s an unnatural lifestyle,” says Bejar, the only permanent member of Vancouver band Destroyer, of life on the road....
With Clan going separate ways, Wu-Tang veteran stays sharp on bigger label
By Joe Hanson / May 15, 2004
Out of all the members of the Wu-Tang Clan, Ghostface Killah has been the most consistent. After 1997, Wu-Tang group and solo albums took a huge drop in quality—from classic to downright forgettable. Ghostface, however, broke this trend in 2000 with his refreshing sophomore effort, Supreme Clientele.  The production mixed Wu-Tang’s vintage haunted-house beats with plunky, guttural soul samples. Ghost even changed his style, rapping in rabid stream of consciousness, delivering lines with so much emotion that it didn’t matter if they were nonsense. He even started flexing his versatility: How many other rappers have made songs about cartoon characters...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / May 15, 2004
I got an e-mail from one of my best friends yesterday, filling me in on the latest happenings in Bridget-world. Finals are over (jealous), the new apartment has bugs (not so jealous), and the six-month boyfriend has started saving up for an engagement ring (excuse me?). Now, Tiffany’s engagement rings come up in our conversations much more than we’d like to admit, but never in the context of obtaining one (and all that goes along with it) in the pseudo-near future. More like: “Ha, ha, big diamond.” How does Miss Bridget respond to the prospect of potentially being Mrs. Bridget...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Peter Robinett / May 15, 2004
There’s a nice mix of things going on this week, so there’s sure to be something for everyone. Because of the start of the Festival of the Arts, there are many things happening right here at the U of C. Also, don’t forget ongoing events like the Taisho Chic exhibition at the Smart Museum and the current season of Off-Off every Friday. Friday, May 14 Festival of the Arts opening, the Smart Museum, 9 p.m. The yearly two-week festival begins tonight. The opening event would be a good chance to catch up on everything that’s happening this year, but even...
The next generation of Off-Off proves its worth with stellar sketch and improv
By Rita Koganzon / May 15, 2004
The fact is, communism is pretty funny no matter what you do with it. But when you mix it with estrogen-filled folk singing, politically incorrect children’s television shows, and sparkly glitter pants, it’s pretty hard to go wrong. The result—Off-Off Campus’s spring show, Pants Pants Revolution!—is a consistently funny and bizarre blend of sketch comedy and improv. Now in the fourth week of its six-week run, Pants Pants Revolution! performs for an enthusiastic, active, and perhaps partially inebriated audience each week. The audience is essential, as it responds to the cast and generates a lively atmosphere in which even the...
Oh, Molly Ringwald, where art thou?
By Ilana Emmett / May 15, 2004
Twenty years and 10 days ago, a movie was released that would alter the genre of high school film forever. Sixteen Candles was the first of three John Hughes-directed, Molly Ringwald-starring movies released during the mid ’80s. It was followed by The Breakfast Club in 1985 and Pretty in Pink in 1986. These, along with 1985’s St. Elmo’s Fire, are the central films made by a prolific group of young actors from the time who are now referred to as the Brat Pack. I don’t ever remember a time when the Brat Pack was not a part of my life....
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / May 15, 2004
I have officially declared this school year The Year of the Weakerthans: a year of loneliness, awkward transitions into something resembling adulthood, ambivalencies [sic], and (hopefully) discovering unknown strength in unlikely sources. It’s almost painful to see how accurate I was with this statement—a journal entry at the end of a great evening with Canadian band (as if referencing their country of origin helps describe the particular brand of punk-cum-folk-in-the-guise-of-indie-rock they play) the Weakerthans—in ways I could not have completely predicted. The Weakerthans’ lyrics booklets read like maps of the emotional waters I have plunged into this year. Despite this...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / May 15, 2004
Dear NBC, Now that you’ve lost Friends and Frasier, you’re going to need some juice to keep your network alive. Lucky for you, I’ve been developing some new shows and tweaking some classics. Enjoy. •Law & Order: Windy City. How is there no L&O in Chicago? New York cannot possibly support the upcoming fourth series in the “In the criminal justice system” vein. Law & Order: Trial By Jury. Hello! Chicago has 1) plenty of criminals, 2) a lot of cops, 3) at least a handful of lawyers. Also, the show is fictional, so even if our fine city were...
Mehab and Matt muse over Metro, melody and making more music
By Mehan Jayasuria / May 15, 2004
Editor’s Note: This is the second part of a two-part interview. On April 21, Cursive played the Metro as the headlining band for the Plea for Peace Tour. The tour, which also includes Planes Mistaken for Stars and Rainer Maria, strives “to promote the ideas of peace through the power of music.” For the first part of the interview with bassist Matt Maginn, see “Talking with the Omaha band that’s not Bright Eyes” (Maroon, 5/7/04). For additional information on the Plea for Peace Tour, check out www.pleaforpeace.com. Chicago Maroon: It’s been a while, but I suppose that Gretta [Cohn, cellist]...
Go south for glam, you man: all of Chicago turning to P1xel, Hyde Park
By Nicholas Hudac / May 15, 2004
Look, buckos. We need to have a talk about something very important: namely, good music, or the lack thereof. In all my years of listening to music and drinking in cheap, run-down flophouses, I’ve seen a hell of a lot of terrible bands. Played in a few of ’em too, ranging from the world’s first (and thankfully only) Celtic-rockabilly combo to your garden-variety tuneless garage bands. On the spectator side of things, I’ve been “serenaded” by Winger cover bands at least 12 times. There have been at least four occasions when I’ve watched mulleted rednecks butcher Springsteen. I’ve even endured...
Eminem’s band could use a little more Eminem, a little better math
By Joe Hanson / May 15, 2004
Eminem is wrong to sing, “These chicks don’t even know the name of my band.” Guy or girl, everybody knows the name of Eminem’s band. It’s just that nobody cares. Many talented rappers have scooped up their old crews after finding success, and the result is always the same: a mediocre album with too little of the star and too much of the other guys. D12 could have easily avoided this problem with D12 World, but instead, they embrace it. D12 is an abbreviation for Dirty Dozen, and the group has six members: Eminem, Kon Artis, Kuniva, Proof, Swifty and...
Rhythmic Bodies in Motion brings R&B, house, jazz to Mandel Hall
By Bianca Sepulveda / May 11, 2004
Audiences were drawn to Mandel Hall on Sunday evening to attend the creatively invigorating dance performance “Rhythmic Bodies in Motion,” the first-annual show of its kind. Sponsored by the Student Government Finance Committee and the University of Chicago Fine Arts program, the show was directed by student choreographers Chantale Stephens, Sasha Dolgicer, and Tokoya Williams. For an hour and a half, dancers held the audience in awe as they boldly leapt and chasséd across the stage, demonstrating a burst of new and refreshing talent in a variety of genres. Ranging from hip hop to swing to ballet (and everything in...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / May 11, 2004
The warm, rainy weather reminded me of summer thunderstorms, and I knew summer would be here soon. Mark was stuck sitting in a car drinking stale coffee while staking out some crooked businessman. I decided to bring him some apple pie—a summer favorite of mine—to rescue him from boredom. He didn’t get much sleuthing done that night, but the pie sure was good. Pie Shell This recipe makes a shell (crust and top) for a 9″ pie 1 1/2 cups flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 stick (1/2 cup) cold butter 1/4 cup cold milk Combine the flour and salt, then...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / May 11, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, I have a roommate that never confronts me about apartment issues. I constantly live in fear that something I will do (or not do) will irritate her. I try hard to be a clean, responsible, and caring roommate, but I worry that if she doesn’t communicate with me I can’t improve. She presently only communicates with me by leaving little notes, and I’m tired of this passive-aggressive behavior. I want to speak to her, but I am afraid it will make her feel uncomfortable. What should I do? Sincerely, Wanting to Communicate Dear Wanting, There are three...
Unlike the Roots, rapper Common displays uncommon bond with audience
By Nicholas Hudac / May 11, 2004
There are moments in every writer’s life when he or she commits the fatal flaw of buying into his or her own words, hook, line, and sinker. For these brief aberrations, which last (if luck holds) no more than a few meager seconds, poets become insufferably convinced of their own genius, novelists fancy themselves as gods, and music critics suddenly find themselves convinced of their role as the only member of the audience that matters. Fortunately, poets and novelists tend to be (relatively) sober, sensible people, less prone to such erroneous flights of fancy. Unfortunately, we music journalists have only...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / May 11, 2004
I am no more prepared to write a real column than I was last week. A wink and a laugh track, signifying nothing You have to be specific about not liking it, and you have to justify yourself. In general, I will assume you are being contrary just so you can be That Asshole Who Doesn’t Like Friends or Pizza.—Margaret Lyons, “Stay Tuned,” 5/7/04 Hi. I’m kind of an asshole—in print, at least. I like pizza, and I don’t like Friends. My position as a long-suffering barista at Uncle Joe’s dead-ended into an obligation to watch the show’s fake-passionately anticipated...
Demien Rice dazzles, despite appalling behavior from alcohol-fueled audience
By Lauren Sailor / May 11, 2004
As I’m typing this, I’m handcuffed to my friend and roommate, Alyssa Manning, for item number 133 of Scav Hunt. We weren’t always this close, though—just last Tuesday, while she was off cultivating piranhas or something, I was uptown at the Riviera, watching Damien Rice play to a sold-out crowd.The opening band, the Frames, was very good; if I’d had money to burn, I’d probably be listening to their latest CD, Set List, right now. The band hailed from Dublin, Ireland (as does Damien Rice), a fact made apparent by their accents. A few songs stuck out: “What Happens When...
New documentary is a Super Size success
By Matt Zakosek / May 11, 2004
There’s a moment in Super Size Me—Morgan Spurlock’s new documentary detailing the evils of the Big Mac—when I sat back in my seat and whispered, “That’s the new Michael Moore.” No, scratch that; I didn’t actually whisper. That duty belonged to the rather rude journalist who sat next to me at the critic’s screening, an older gentlemen who offered unnecessary commentary like, “Ugh!” and “That just spoiled my dinner!” Apparently, he thought that such exclamations were insightful—in case we weren’t all equally disgusted by Spurlock’s close-ups of his own vomit. I experienced my epiphany in silence, but that didn’t make...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Peter Robinett / May 7, 2004
Another week, another list. I was going to suggest that the events listed below would be a good alternative to Scav Hunt (and they are), but really, it’s slim pickings this week. Maybe it’s a sign from the Scav Hunt gods. Friday, May 7 Court Theater Student Night, 8-10 p.m., $8. This is a performance of Fräulein Else followed by a discussion with refreshments. It’s a good opportunity to learn more about the play. The Fog of War, Doc Films, 6:30 p.m., 9:00 p.m., 11:30 p.m. This Academy Award-winning film presents a nuanced view of Robert McNamara, one of the...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / May 7, 2004
It’s not that I don’t understand spring fever. In fact, I have a case of it right now. Chicago winters are, in a word, gray, and at the first sign of fuchsia tulips on the quads (or 50 degree weather), I am more than ready to whip out the flip-flops and sunglasses. I love walking around campus when everyone has shed his or her drab pea coat and replaced it with scantier, more colorful wear. But this week, you will notice people showing even more skin than anticipated. Underwear as outerwear, wings made of paper plates, and bedding all make...
CSO, Rostropovich finds meaning works by Dutillex, Shostakovich
By Peter Kupfer / May 7, 2004
According to Solomon Volkov, Dmitri Shostakovich’s Tenth Symphony “has a clear ‘subplot’: confrontation between artist and tyrant. The wild, frightening Scherzo [the second movement]…is a musical portrait of Stalin.” Yet Elena Basner—the daughter of Shostakovich’s close friend Veniamin Basner—is “sorry for those who are told…that “the scherzo of the Tenth Symphony was conceived as a musical portrait of Stalin!” What a primitive, protozoan level of understanding! And how vulgar.” These divergent readings highlight one of the main dilemmas surrounding Shostakovich: What does his music “mean?” What, for that matter, does any music “mean?” The Chicago Symphony Orchestra threw itself firmly...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / May 7, 2004
I started watching Friends before I had my first kiss, my first drink, my first B+. I was watching Friends before I went west of Pennsylvania, earned my first paycheck, or appropriately used a semicolon. I have had one (ill-advised) Rachel haircut and two (perhaps more ill-advised) Monica haircuts. I have described friendships as “very Ross and Rachel.” I have quoted Friends on embarassingly many occasions, namely when we moved a couch out of my apartment, and I kept saying “piv-ot!” like Ross did, even though my friends hadn’t seen that episode. And last night, along with bajillions of other...
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / May 7, 2004
I form relationships with bands the way a lot of people form romantic relationships, and I don’t think I’m alone in this. Long-time fans react a lot like lovers when their favorite bands gain popularity. They often distance themselves or even break up with the band, but there are also times when they actually learn to adapt to the changes and stay together. When I can do the latter, I know that I am really in love. Sure, I might still have a crush like the one I have on that Sugar Ray song “Answer The Phone,” or the occasional...
Revolutionary Rent brings la vie boheme from Broadway to Chicago
By Matt Zakosek / May 7, 2004
The history of Rent is one of Broadway’s strangest stories. Its creator, Jonathan Larson, died the morning of Rent’s final dress rehearsal, 10 days shy of his 36th birthday—not of HIV-related complications, as many believe, but of an aortic aneurysm. For a few years after its 1996 debut, Rent was unimpeachably cool. Theater critics raved, conservative politicians blanched, and hordes of alterna-teens lined up in front of the Nederlander to score bargain-buy tickets moments before the show. Then—horror of horrors—the zeitgeist changed drastically. RENT no longer garnered the kind of respect that a Tony Award and Pulitzer Prize–winning masterpiece deserves....
Talking with Omaha band that’s not Bright Eyes
By Mehan Jayasuria / May 7, 2004
[Editor’s Note: This is the first of a two-part interview.] Last Wednesday, Cursive played the Metro, headlining the fifth annual Plea For Peace Tour, organized by Asian Man Records founder Mike Park. The goal of the tour is “to promote the ideas of peace through the power of music,” and the organizers’ aim is to provide access to information alongside the music at all the shows. I had a chance to sit down with Matt Maginn, bassist for Cursive, before the show, to talk about the tour, Omaha, and breakfast in Europe. Chicago Maroon: When you came to Chicago not...
UT’s Death of an Anarchist pleases, and that’s no accident
By Hana Yoo / May 4, 2004
Crazy, uproarious, and at times bewilderingly fast-paced, last weekend’s University Theater production of Dario Fo’s Accidental Death of an Anarchist, directed by Chris Wand, was not a play for the slow of mind. The show was a potent mix of slapstick antics, clever jokes, and biting political commentary. To fully appreciate it, an audience member had to catch details, like the reference to BJ food and the tiny rooms in Pierce, or to the prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay under our current administration. Yet even without catching everything—I certainly did not—Anarchist proved highly enjoyable. After the show, I sang “Que...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / May 4, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, My boyfriend is an artist. And I love him. But the relationship is going through some rough times, mostly, for two reasons. (1) He’s an alcoholic. (2) A few weekends ago, when I was away visiting my parents, he slept with another woman. He told me about it as soon as I returned home, and there were lots of tears, and apologies, and promises of “never again.” I spent a couple of hours comforting him and didn’t really show him how upset I was (he seemed so delicate and out-of-sorts) but now I just don’t know what...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / May 4, 2004
I am in no mood or state to write a real column, nor am I in any mood for anything constructive. Having just turned in my senior thesis, I’m dashing this off so that I can start studying for my programming midterm. Keep that in mind. Thus I present you with three unsympathetic takes on local aesthetic issues: SG Candidates: Please learn to write I ask you this, fellow students: Do you trust your money and time to SG candidates who, for all their careful ideas and years of experience in student government, cannot be brought to re-read their statements...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / May 4, 2004
Maria and I got to the party late in the afternoon. It was my day off, and we decided to go celebrate Cinco de Mayo with some friends. The place was so full of good food and free beer that the time flew by. Maria and I left early the next morning with just a few hazy memories of the night before. When we got back to Hyde Park, we wanted to make some of the great food we had eaten the night before, so we made some fajitas and guacamole. Since we were cooking vegetarian, we used some fake...
John Relyea, Warren Jones excel at Mandel-when they stick to theatrics
By Jeremy Rosenberg / May 4, 2004
When thoughts of the classical German lied (art song) traverse one’s mind, they are eternally accompanied by the name of Franz Schubert. These two trek hand-in-hand so often that they nearly become one. Other composers included in musings on the lied are usually limited to Schumann and Brahms. Indeed, the songs of these three composers are sung with such frequency that they soon lose their novelty; even diehard lied enthusiasts rapidly grow weary of them. That is why a lieder recital that does not include the work of these three is always welcome. Schubert, Schumann, and Brahms had nothing to...
Def Jux showcases hottest in independent hip-hop
By Nicholas Hudac / May 4, 2004
“Hey, freak show.” The Spanish-tinged voice coming from the car was anything but friendly. “You ain’t from around here. Where you going, amigo?” I looked around and shrugged. “The Logan Square Auditorium. Got a hip-hop show to see,” I replied warily. An eyebrow was raised. “Yeah, it’s a Def Jux thing—Mr. Lif, Murs, Akrobatik, you know—good stuff,” I continued gingerly. For the first time in years, I didn’t feel like being a smartass. The man nodded and softened a little, looking stoically at his lit cigarette. He thought a minute, weighed his words carefully, and then turned back to me....
Mean Girls scores with Fey’s words, Lohan’s body
By Margaret Lyons / April 30, 2004
I was warned to have low expectations for Mean Girls, and I complied. I expected a harmless but nonetheless enjoyable teen comedy, and that’s what I got. Though not as dark as Heathers, as fantastical as Clueless, or as endearing as Sixteen Candles, Mean Girls is still funny—or at least funny enough. It’s not a timeless sleepover classic (like the movies it palely imitates), but it holds its own in the oversaturated teen comedy genre. Much media hoo-hah has been paid to the fact that Mean Girls is the first screenwriting attempt for Tina Fey, the first woman to hold...
Lifelong German industrial-rock devotee anticipates tonight’s consummation
By Libby Pearson / April 30, 2004
Tonight I am going to see my sexception. One’s sexception is the man (or woman) with which one would, nay, will have sex if given the chance, no matter the circumstances of one’s life. If one is in a committed relationship and the sexception walks by, the other half of that committed relationship is out of luck that night. His name is Blixa Bargeld and he is the lead singer of Einsturzende Neubauten. His name need not be laminated. One need only look at the number of albums I have (all of them), the number of pages I have torn...
Concerto showcases the best and brightest of emerging U of C talent
By Greg Weinstein / April 30, 2004
On Saturday, May 1, the University Symphony Orchestra will present a star-studded Concerto Showcase concert, featuring three winners of the Department of Music’s biannual Concerto Competition. The audience will hear a trio of musicians with backgrounds as diverse as the pieces they will perform: Leann Sechrest (who will sing two arias by Donizetti), Miguel Ramirez (performing an oboe fantasia by Pasculli), and Lisa Buda (playing the first movement of Tchaikovsky’s first piano concerto). Each of these fine student musicians has taken a drastically different path to the Mandel Hall stage. Sechrest is an Environmental Studies major in her fourth year...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Peter Robinett / April 30, 2004
Well, this week is definitely an improvement over last week, with a lot of great concerts, in addition to some interesting theater and films. Friday, April 30 Envy. This oft-delayed movie with Ben Stiller and Jack Black finally opens. Both actors are funny, normally. However, this sounds like it’s going to be one of those exceptions to the rule. I hope I’m wrong. Art Ensemble of Chicago at Mandel Hall, 8 p.m., $11 for students ($25 otherwise). This avant-garde group spans a wide range of music, from free jazz to African drumming. Their return to Mandel Hall after 32 years...
Les talens Lyriques: heavy on scholarship but short on artistic innovation
By Nick Morrison / April 30, 2004
Access to Chicago Presents’ series of “early music” concerts is one of the most underappreciated privileges of attending the University—assuming, that is, that you appreciate early music. The series is at the forefront of current musical fashion and has added to the widespread resurgence of academic and popular interest in the music predating J.S. Bach. It will continue next year with prestigious, mostly European chamber music groups specializing in Medieval, Renaissance, and Early Baroque music. Of course, the assumption that you, the reader, appreciate early music is a large one. Bach is the Rubicon of classical music for a reason,...
Aural Pleasure with Dave Maher
By Dave Maher / April 30, 2004
So much of the best art seems born from pain. History testifies to this with stories of tortured artists: Van Gogh cutting off his own ear, Kerouac drinking himself into oblivion, and too many suicides to count. Rock music has Kurt Cobain and, recently, Elliott Smith. Even the Beach Boys, the musically sunniest group I can think of, have lyrics full of anxiety and frustration (see songs like “I Just Wasn’t Made For These Times”). When The Beatles sang, “It’s getting better all the time,” they had to earn it with songs like “Eleanor Rigby” and “Help!” Critics, especially, will...
Get a Life with Erica Cerulo
By Erica Cerulo / April 30, 2004
Last night I really wanted to plan a romantic night in for my boyfriend and me. We really haven’t gotten to spend much quality time together in a long time, and I figured we could cozy up together on the couch with some carry out. What to get, though? Pad thai from Noodles? Jerk wings from Calypso? Wraps from Florian? This occasion called for something a little different. Hugh deserved something extraordinary. Oh, did I not mention that my boyfriend is in fact Hugh Grant? Yes, that’s right. And by “not seeing him in a while” I mean that I...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / April 27, 2004
The cold weather descended again and brought rain along with it. Mark had an onion soup recipe that he said would raise my spirits. I told him a bottle of wine and a bubble bath could do the same thing. We opted for all three when he showed up at my door late that night, his jacket soaked through from trailing some scumbag through the storm. We also added some cheese toasts to the menu. He was right: The evening did raise my spirits. Onion Soup Serves 4 2 yellow onions 1/4 teaspoon ground pepper dash of salt 3 Tablespoons...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / April 27, 2004
Everyone who I have read or talked to about Fox’s new reality show, The Swan, has been so horrified by the idea that they’re unwilling to watch it. This goes for everyone from my girlfriend to Salon’s Heather Havrilesky, both noted reality TV junkies. Anyone who has had anything to say publicly on this show—aside from a few strident fans on the show’s bulletin board—has been totally disgusted by it. Given the propensity of reality TV shows to create symphonies of insecurity and manipulation, The Swan shouldn’t be much worse than, say, Extreme Makeover or America’s Top Model. In fact,...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / April 27, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, The other day my girlfriend and I were celebrating our one-year anniversary. We were, I thought, deeply in love and, what’s more, happy. Halfway through the fish course, she burst into tears and wouldn’t say a word to me for the rest of the meal. After we left the restaurant she stopped crying but still wouldn’t speak to me—except to ask me to drive her home. It’s been over a week and she won’t return my calls or see me. Do you have any insight at all into this strange occurrence? I thought things were so good...
Kent Nagano raises interpretation issues with Chicago Symphony Orchestra
By Manasi Vydyanath / April 27, 2004
The most intriguing part of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s concert—conducted by the superlatively elegant and Beecham-esque Kent Nagano—was Ichiro Nodaïra’s orchestration of the first fugue, the canon at the octave, and the canon at the tenth from Bach’s legendary Kunst der Fuge. The first piece was orchestrated relatively traditionally, true to the fugue’s austere, ascetic spirit. Matters became much more interesting after that, as the canon at the octave called for a marimba, vibraphone, celesta, harp, violin, viola, and cello, while the canon at the tenth was a dark, somber re-creation, involving a deep and turbulent brass section overlaid with...
TV on the Radio takes its place among the greats at the venerable Fireside
By Nicholas Hudac / April 27, 2004
On paper, the Fireside Bowl is a terrible venue. In person, it’s worse. A Chicago legend that is, by day, a beat-up Naugahyde nightmare of a bowling alley/seedy lounge straight out of the bowels of the ’70s, the Fireside transforms under the cover of night into an all-ages concert venue—successfully combining the short-comings of both types of venues into one massively improbable structure. The concert area is tiny, consisting of the thin sliver of floor in between the lanes and the wall. Stranded out in the midst of the West Side jungle, the Fireside is almost inaccessible by public transportation,...
There in a pinch, Sufjan pulls through on stage
By Jenn Barnes / April 27, 2004
Sometimes people talk about certain musicians and about being with them through good times and bad. Well, Sufjan Stevens was totally there for me when I took a major spill on Portobello Road. On October 24, 2003, he bore witness to my second flying experience in three months. Moments earlier, I had been inside the Rough Trade Records store in Notting Hill, and I was totally taken by the gorgeous song they had just put on—”Flint (For the Unemployed and Underpaid).” At the time I was obsessed with pianos. Not with playing them, just with their existence in songs. And...
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / April 23, 2004
Most people have had dreams in which they appear naked in public. These dreams are such a part of our culture that those of us who have not dreamed them—myself included—have been confronted with them through the television, books, movies, and the stories of friends, so we can easily imagine our own. They are dreams of fear and insecurity, because most of us would rather not expose ourselves—flaws and all, and often, all flaws—to the world. And yet, this is exactly what I want to do this week, to get naked for just a bit. I am scared as hell,...
Brendel lifts Schubert classic above the efforts of others as Symphony Hall
By Christian Kraus / April 23, 2004
Alfred Brendel is more than a pianist. Perhaps calling him a historical monument would go further in capturing his significance—however ordinary he may appear on stage and very much alive he still is. Brendel’s performances have not only enchanted audiences far and wide, they have also left an indelible mark on the history of music itself. Were one to single out his most lasting achievement, it would be his almost single-handed popularization of Schubert’s piano work since his pioneering recordings in the ’70s. There are others, too, of course: Alfred Schnabel recorded unforgettable, still-viable accounts of Schubert’s late sonatas as...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / April 23, 2004
There once was this boy who tried to woo me by appealing entirely to my sweet tooth. He would leave me candy by my car and bring me brownies in the Reg, which my friends and I would promptly devour. He tried to lure me on dates with him with promises of floats at the Med and croissant French toast for brunch at Bistro 110. Although I do like a boy who is willing to whip me up a batch of cupcakes whenever my little heart desires, this guy just didn’t appeal to any of my other senses. And so...
Death Cab: first time’s the charm
By Andy Brown / April 23, 2004
Death Cab for Cutie are on Barsuk Records, an independent record label that has a little dog as its logo. Their music is catchy, and they would certainly not sound out of place on top 40 radio. What we’re tiptoeing around here is that DCFC could certainly be on a major label if they were so inclined. This raises the question: Why would they choose to release their records on a tiny independent label, wallowing in obscurity, forced to eat Burger King six nights a week? It also raises the question of why they would choose to have their music...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Peter Robinett / April 23, 2004
Here comes fifth week, with midterms approaching (or maybe even here already). Unfortunately, there isn’t much new happening in Chicago this week. So that leaves even more time for studying. Great. I’d tell you to go see the Strokes this Friday, but there obviously aren’t any tickets left. Friday, April 23 Pants Pants Revolution! at the Blue Gargoyle, 9 p.m. $4. Off-Off Campus’s latest show opens this Friday. It’s Off-Off. It’s funny. You should go. (OK, you do have all quarter to see it.) The Crystal Method at the House of Blues, doors open at 6:30 p.m. $10 to $22.50....
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / April 23, 2004
The more TV I watch—and now that my B.A. has been turned in, it’s a lot more—the more shocked I am that network executives haven’t called me to help them make their shows better. I am overflowing with constructive and not-that-constructive criticism, so this week, “Stay Tuned” is changing channels to tell the monkeybutts in the TV world how to straighten up and fly right. American Idol AI is extremely good and probably always will be. Talent shows are more or less win-win—just ask the assclowns at Nashville Star. But Wednesday night, when Chicago’s own Jennifer Hudson was eliminated? That...
This time with feeling: Tarantino skimps on blood in poignant second act
By Davin Essex / April 23, 2004
Quentin Tarantino clearly has a foot fetish. Specifically, he seems to have a hard-core thing for Uma Thurman’s feet. But if he can make movies as entertaining as the Kill Bills, then who am I to judge? Kill Bill: Vol. 1, like The Passion, is a “talking point” movie, good for parties and water coolers thanks to its excessive violence, seemingly slim plot, and very talkative, media-friendly director. It’s been obsessed over in the press and has become a box office (and DVD) success due to fanatical fans, aggressive detractors (though fewer of the latter than one would expect, considering...
Zwan be damned: Corgan shines in solo debut
By Mehan Jayasuria / April 23, 2004
Let’s face the facts: Billy Corgan is a hit-or-miss kind of guy. While his best songwriting has secured him a place in the canon of ’90s rock, his low points are nothing if not laughable. For every Siamese Dream he’s penned there’s a Mary Star of the Sea waiting to call his talents into question. This being the case, it was with a high degree of skepticism that I received the news a few months back that Billy Corgan was working on a solo record. I believe my exact words at the time were “Billy, please don’t fuck this one...
Art exhibit exchange between American and European ideas
By Diana Fox / April 20, 2004
During the years between the First and Second World Wars, an international modernism swept the art world through various movements in the U.S. and Europe. However, a particularly strong exchange between the United States and France contributed to the production of many monumental works in American art. This exchange led the February 1924 issue of American Review to label Paris as “capital of America”—and now leads the Chicago’s Terra Museum of American Art (624 North Michigan Avenue) to present an exhibit displaying the works of American artists who resided in Paris during the interwar years. The exhibit, formally titled A...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / April 20, 2004
The weather was so nice this week I had to knock off work early. I was trailing a couple of guys, and I wanted to go to the lake instead of down some dark alley. So Maria and I packed up a grill and went to a park. Burgers are always the choice when I cook out, but we decided to make sandwiches instead. Maria was fond of some great grilled Portobello mushrooms at a local diner, so we made our own on our little grill. Portobello Sandwiches Makes 2 sandwiches Marinade: 1/3 cup olive oil 1 teaspoon fresh rosemary,...
Professor Peter Schickele injects a spirit of fun into the works of P.D.Q. Bach
By Anne Lovering Rounds / April 20, 2004
Peter Schickele is Professor of Music at the University of Southern North Dakota at Hoople, though his sabbatical shows few signs of ending. (“They let me teach a class once every seven years or so,” he explained recently.) On Tuesday night, the professor arrived by scooter at Symphony Center to lecture on the Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s performance of various extant works by P.D.Q. Bach, the most renowned of Bach’s twenty children. The program of the Baroque master’s work included the “Howdy” Symphony, formally known as the Grüß Gott Symphony, the Air for G Strings, and one of my personal favorites,...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / April 20, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, Recently, all of the gentlemen in the College bearing my prenom received an electronic missive from a young lady, informing one of us who is “in music” and “has the gorgeous hands” that there exists a corner of our great university which is consistently deserted after a certain afternoon hour. What am I to do? What if she’s, well, ugly? My reason tells me that only a confident person would write such a letter and attractive people are often confident. But then again, maybe she’s “fugly” and just “got some” often enough to have some modicum of...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / April 20, 2004
Toward an Ethics of File Sharing I. Keep in mind that this is an “ethics,” not a “legality.” Not everything illegal is unethical, just as not everything unethical is illegal. So, while sharing copyrighted materials remains illegal (and verboten under University policy), as it is generally practiced using programs like Kazaa and such, it’s worth considering ways in which it might not be an ethical violation. In other words: if you’re going to be a criminal anyway, you might as well not be a dick about it. I.a. I’m not really a good person about this either, so I’m not...
Oh My God concert and Swansea Mass CD show best of Chicago rock scene
By Thirbault Raoult / April 20, 2004
On April 10, I found myself at the Double Door. Maybe it was the dinner I had (I had a strawberry milkshake) or the dinner I should have had, but the pulses from Calliope, Plane, and Oh My God, while different in nature, all made me feel like displacing my neighbors to gyrate, jump, and put my fist in the air, as I am wont to do when slightly inebriated in a darkened room. (On a sidenote, I promise never to use “wont” again.) I just picked up Oh My God’s album, Interrogations & Confessions, last week. I’ve been hooked...
Oh My God concert and Swansea Mass CD show best of Chicago rock scene
By Thirbault Raoult / April 20, 2004
On April 10, I found myself at the Double Door. Maybe it was the dinner I had (I had a strawberry milkshake) or the dinner I should have had, but the pulses from Calliope, Plane, and Oh My God, while different in nature, all made me feel like displacing my neighbors to gyrate, jump, and put my fist in the air, as I am wont to do when slightly inebriated in a darkened room. (On a sidenote, I promise never to use “wont” again.) I just picked up Oh My God’s album, Interrogations & Confessions, last week. I’ve been hooked...
Bob Schneider is Good Now, but there’s still room for improvement
By Brad Heffern / April 20, 2004
Bob Schneider has been third on my “going-to-make-it-big list” for some time now (right behind the Beatles and Nirvana—I’m crossing my fingers). He’s got that “if you dig Dave Matthews, you’ll like this” type of attraction. It’s a guarantee that if I’m listening to Bob Schneider, anyone wearing flip-flops or a tie-dyed shirt will be interested. The problem is, he’s something of an underachiever. All his albums would be great if you could just remove one or two songs, i.e. “Jingy” and ” Bullets” on his previous release Lonelyland. He always seems to try to cover too much ground. Diversity...
Bob Schneider is Good Now, but there’s still room for improvement
By Brad Heffern / April 20, 2004
Bob Schneider has been third on my “going-to-make-it-big list” for some time now (right behind the Beatles and Nirvana—I’m crossing my fingers). He’s got that “if you dig Dave Matthews, you’ll like this” type of attraction. It’s a guarantee that if I’m listening to Bob Schneider, anyone wearing flip-flops or a tie-dyed shirt will be interested. The problem is, he’s something of an underachiever. All his albums would be great if you could just remove one or two songs, i.e. “Jingy” and ” Bullets” on his previous release Lonelyland. He always seems to try to cover too much ground. Diversity...
Local H search for P.J. Soles, find selves in process
By Mara Stankiewicz / April 20, 2004
Any horror movie guru can certainly tell you about P.J. Soles. Carrie didn’t turn prom into a massacre for no reason—P.J. Soles’s vicious character drove her to do it. Oh, and don’t forget her fine role as Jamie Lee Curtis’s best friend in Halloween. That was one to remember. In fact, it was almost as astonishing as her portrayal of a Ramones fan in Rock ‘n’ Roll High School. But, wait: Do you still have no idea who I am talking about? That’s probably because P.J. has completely dropped off the face of Hollywood (and has retreated to small international...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / April 16, 2004
Friday Just like The L Word sort of tries to be Sex and the City, but gayer, Dead Like Me tries to be Six Feet Under, but deader. A bunch of dead characters hang out as if they’re alive, but they’re not—as we’ve noted, they are dead. The second season hasn’t hit the airwaves yet, but it’s in the works, so catch up now with the season one reruns. Tonight’s episode is only the second in the series, so you can still expect a lot of explanations of all the characters and why they’re all dead, and why Mandy Patinkin...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / April 16, 2004
Friday Just like The L Word sort of tries to be Sex and the City, but gayer, Dead Like Me tries to be Six Feet Under, but deader. A bunch of dead characters hang out as if they’re alive, but they’re not—as we’ve noted, they are dead. The second season hasn’t hit the airwaves yet, but it’s in the works, so catch up now with the season one reruns. Tonight’s episode is only the second in the series, so you can still expect a lot of explanations of all the characters and why they’re all dead, and why Mandy Patinkin...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / April 16, 2004
Men are the new women, at least according to the latest Elle. Recently, there has been increased chatter about the high-maintenance “metrosexual” who is tempted by the idea of the male pedicure. After watching my dad carry his purse, (which he refers to as his “travel bag”), after tweezing an old boyfriend’s brows on a regular basis, and after overhearing my current crush blow-drying his hair, I can only nod emphatically in agreement. How many people are aware of this development, though? How can one effectively disseminate this morsel of truth to the citizens of the world (or at the...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / April 16, 2004
Men are the new women, at least according to the latest Elle. Recently, there has been increased chatter about the high-maintenance “metrosexual” who is tempted by the idea of the male pedicure. After watching my dad carry his purse, (which he refers to as his “travel bag”), after tweezing an old boyfriend’s brows on a regular basis, and after overhearing my current crush blow-drying his hair, I can only nod emphatically in agreement. How many people are aware of this development, though? How can one effectively disseminate this morsel of truth to the citizens of the world (or at the...
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / April 16, 2004
I must have one of the absolute worst ways of going about discovering new music and movies: reviews. Now you might be thinking, “Dave, a lot of people read reviews to discover new music and movies. It’s kind of the way it goes. I don’t really know where you’re going with this introduction, but if you’re trying to say you’re unique, well, buddy—you’re not.” Yes, I know that quite a few people read reviews. But I am especially appalled at myself for the uncommonly fierce appetite with which I pursue entertainment journalism when I know, more often than not, that...
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / April 16, 2004
I must have one of the absolute worst ways of going about discovering new music and movies: reviews. Now you might be thinking, “Dave, a lot of people read reviews to discover new music and movies. It’s kind of the way it goes. I don’t really know where you’re going with this introduction, but if you’re trying to say you’re unique, well, buddy—you’re not.” Yes, I know that quite a few people read reviews. But I am especially appalled at myself for the uncommonly fierce appetite with which I pursue entertainment journalism when I know, more often than not, that...
Bacchus disapoints, but view from the top makes it almost worth it
By Dorothea Hunter / April 16, 2004
Two Saturday nights ago, the strangest thing happened: A club I was at got shut down by the police. Rumor has it that Bacchus was over capacity—the police have been extra vigilant this year with enforcing crowd control (after that event where clubbers got trampled at a South Side club). Nevertheless, it was a strange occurrence, and even though it was a freak episode, there was not much else redeeming about my night at Bacchus. I had been hearing about the club from friends for years, but I had never ventured there myself before that night. Maybe one of the...
Bacchus disapoints, but view from the top makes it almost worth it
By Dorothea Hunter / April 16, 2004
Two Saturday nights ago, the strangest thing happened: A club I was at got shut down by the police. Rumor has it that Bacchus was over capacity—the police have been extra vigilant this year with enforcing crowd control (after that event where clubbers got trampled at a South Side club). Nevertheless, it was a strange occurrence, and even though it was a freak episode, there was not much else redeeming about my night at Bacchus. I had been hearing about the club from friends for years, but I had never ventured there myself before that night. Maybe one of the...
Voices STD (Stuff To Do)
By Peter Robinett / April 16, 2004
Another week, another calendar. Can you dig it? This one’s going to be shorter, since I got a bunch of the ongoing exhibitions out of the way last week. Check the Maroon’s website (maroon.uchicago.edu) if you need a refresher. Friday, April 16 Chicago Symphony Orchestra, 1:30 p.m., Kent Nagano conducting. For those with traditional tastes. The early afternoon time should appeal to those who think anything’s better when it’s a matinee. A Perfect Circle, 8 p.m., UIC Pavilion. This supergroup includes Maynard James, vocalist for Tool. I don’t know much about them, but if you’re into Tool, Nine Inch Nails,...
Voices STD (Stuff To Do)
By Peter Robinett / April 16, 2004
Another week, another calendar. Can you dig it? This one’s going to be shorter, since I got a bunch of the ongoing exhibitions out of the way last week. Check the Maroon’s website (maroon.uchicago.edu) if you need a refresher. Friday, April 16 Chicago Symphony Orchestra, 1:30 p.m., Kent Nagano conducting. For those with traditional tastes. The early afternoon time should appeal to those who think anything’s better when it’s a matinee. A Perfect Circle, 8 p.m., UIC Pavilion. This supergroup includes Maynard James, vocalist for Tool. I don’t know much about them, but if you’re into Tool, Nine Inch Nails,...
Tortoise makes space-age bachelor-pad jazz for the discerning listner
By Brad Heffern / April 16, 2004
Why does Chicago make the music it does? Is it something in the water (or Old Style, as we like to call it), or possibly in the hot dogs? I was ruminating a bit on that particular train of thought the other day while cleaning, a process which usually consists of me sifting through the various local releases past and present that have piled up in my ramshackle apartment. Never being much of a homebody (my mother prays daily to several different saints in the hopes that I’ll eventually discover what a mop is for), I muttered “to hell with...
Tortoise makes space-age bachelor-pad jazz for the discerning listner
By Brad Heffern / April 16, 2004
Why does Chicago make the music it does? Is it something in the water (or Old Style, as we like to call it), or possibly in the hot dogs? I was ruminating a bit on that particular train of thought the other day while cleaning, a process which usually consists of me sifting through the various local releases past and present that have piled up in my ramshackle apartment. Never being much of a homebody (my mother prays daily to several different saints in the hopes that I’ll eventually discover what a mop is for), I muttered “to hell with...
Strong production returns Proof
By Andy Marchesseault / April 16, 2004
Since its opening on Broadway in 2000, David Auburn’s Proof has practically looped the theater circuit. After debuting to rave reviews, and garnering both the Tony and Pulitzer for its author, the play became the hot new thing onstage. Hence, playhouses from Gloucester to the Golden State have all put on performances of this show in the last three years. The quality of these productions has varied, but what have remained intact are Auburn’s gifts for wit, language, and the portrayal of complex human relationships. All of the hype of the last few years should culminate with Miramax’s film version...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / April 13, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, My girlfriend, after much ballyhoo, convinced me to have a threesome with her and another guy. Then she broke up with me and started dating him! Isn’t that totally fucked? Bitterly, Plotting Revenge Dear Bitterly, Let us to turn to Barthes for solace: “A Mandarin fell in love with a courtesan. ‘I shall be yours,’ she told him, ‘when you have spent 100 nights waiting for me, sitting on the stool, in my garden, beneath my window.’ But on the 99th night, the Mandarin stood up, put his stool under his arm, and went away.” In every...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / April 13, 2004
I was on to something hot. My latest assignment was this louse who was running around on his wife. He was on the move with a special friend. I was on the move with a special friend, too—but I called mine my .38, not Julia. It looked like they were on their way out of the city, but first they went to a local dive. My guy almost noticed me a few times taking pictures, and he was looking kind of jumpy. Within a few minutes I had the material I needed, and—not wanting to introduce anyone to my special...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / April 13, 2004
Last week I was invited to a dining- hall focus group, for which I received 10 Flex Dollars,1 a chance to bitch about the fruit situation in Bartlett, and the staggering reminder that the U of C is thinking about re-housing the Shoreland refugees in some kind of enormous architectural project (possibly south of the Midway) as an expansion onto BJ or some such idea. If they were all sent to one place, which was sort of the subtext, it would be a project that would almost equal that 750-student brick shithouse Max Palevsky in carrying capacity and, potentially, could...
The Passion of Christ : throking the flames of prejudice or renewing faith?
By Bianca Sepulveda / April 13, 2004
Even a month and a half after its release, audiences were still clapping when the screen went dark. As I glanced at the many grimacing faces scattered throughout the theater, it was obvious that this was much more than a $354.8 million-grossing blockbuster—for many it was an experience of personal reevaluation, especially during the Easter holiday. Perhaps people have become hungry to find new meaning in their lives, especially in a reality of increasing skepticism, when the idea of faith becomes transient and superfluous. But it has been debated whether The Passion of the Christ progresses or stifles this very...
Pop-punk pioneers take peers to school on new disk
By Evan Arnold / April 13, 2004
On their 1996 release Everything Sucks, the Descendents asked, “What will I be like when I get old?” With their new release on Fat Wreck Chords, the definitive answer is, “Much the same, but older and less awesome.” Can I get away with saying negative things about the Descendents? Their 1982 release, Milo Goes to College, is credited with founding the pop-punk sound. Milo, their lead singer, liked science, but also listened to the Ramones and the Doors. Thus, resentful-dork rock was born. The product was angry, energetic, hateful of the suburbs, crass, and fun. Of course, this also gave...
Get a Life
By Erica Cerulo / April 9, 2004
On Wednesday I had the most disappointing shake of my life. This was no photo finish, either. Although I am quite sure that I ordered a vanilla shake, I somehow managed to get a plain. Apparently plain ice cream is a new-fangled thing that I had missed out on until now, but if I were you I would try to avoid it if at all possible. Of course, this may be damn near impossible, as it does appear to moonlight as “vanilla.” I attempted to let the drink sit for awhile, hoping that some miraculous chemical reaction would occur, and...
Berstein piece enlivens Gilbert’s turn at “superstar” conducting
By Manasi Vydyanath / April 9, 2004
This concert—conducted by the accomplished Alan Gilbert—opened with Sibelius’ symphonic poem Night Ride and Sunrise and closed with Nielsen’s sinfonia espansiva. These were nice, predictable works, impeccably executed but quite uninteresting. The former seems to deserve its relative obscurity—its few resurrections, in the name of artistic curiosity, serve to convince us that its rarity is not a historical dereliction. It is entirely to Gilbert’s credit that he managed to infuse some drama into Night Ride and Sunrise. The high point of the work was the stirring declarations of dawn, set against roseate orchestral hues in the latter half of the...
Aural Pleasure
By Dave Maher / April 9, 2004
“I just don’t know where to begin” is the line that opens Elvis Costello’s Armed Forces, one of the first albums that got me obsessed with music—good music, that is—in the summer before high school. So I guess I could do worse than to say that I, too, don’t know where to begin. I am writing a column—one with a title that is part silly pun and part stolen Blackalicious song title—about music and about myself, which is to say a column about my recent (re)discoveries, (mis)adventures, and lovers’ quarrels with music. It will, hopefully, be the musical equivalent of...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By Peter Robinett / April 9, 2004
So, I’m going to try to keep you abreast of the latest events going on in Hyde Park and Chicago. Look for future articles in each Friday edition. Also, if I made the horrible mistake of failing to mention some super awesome/totally unique/once-in-a-lifetime event, or, for that matter, if one is coming up, tell me at peterr@uchicago.edu. Friday, April 9 The Alamo opens. Remember the Alamo? Well, you probably do, just barely. Now we’ve got a big, expensive action movie to tell us how awesome its defenders were. Of course, almost all of them died in the end, so it...
Pair of prodigious pianists are a study in brilliant contrasts at Symphony Hall
By Christian Kraus / April 9, 2004
In Chicago, this spring is the season of the great pianists. In the next six weeks, Alfred Brendel, András Schiff, Krystian Zimerman, Mitsuko Uchida, and Pierre-Laurent Aimard will all offer the latest results of their musical research, and just now, we had the chance to see two of today’s most promising young pianists at Symphony Hall. Already, both are highly acclaimed: the 35-year-old Piotr Anderszewski is the recipient of the Gilmore Award, the most prestigious award for talented pianists; and Lang Lang, even younger at 22, is “the future of classical music,” or so we are told by his record...
Hyde Park bands impress in North Side showcase
By Thirbault Raoult / April 9, 2004
This past Tuesday night, three Hyde Park rock bands lit up the Metro along with Dig for Fire, who hail from outside our spring-laced domain. I won’t say the show was a culmination—since that implies demise—but I will say that it solidified the bands’ status as bona fide Sonic Movements. The premise of this delightfully charged evening was to put genuine good tunes hand-in-hand with student films (i.e. LIGHT), so that the two mediums might, well, have a one-night stand. In the end, however, what stuck for me was the music, though, to be fair, there were some nice convergences...
Pearls of Wisdom
By Lila Pearl / April 6, 2004
Dear Lila Pearl, If, hypothetically, a person had a, say…unusual sexual predilection that precluded true fulfillment in other capacities, at what stage in a relationship would this hypothetical person be obliged to disclose it: right at the beginning, so as to eliminate any element of surprise, or when the relationship has gotten good and comfortable, so the hypothetical partner knows the hypothetical person as more than just a scary kink? Just curious, Vanilla Bean Dear Vanilla, There’s a moment in every relationship when each person is “obliged to disclose” various complications from their past (present?) —romantic history, family problems, deep...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / April 6, 2004
Maria and I waited in line for an hour at the hottest pizzeria on the North Side. The pizza was great, but this wait wasn’t. I felt like I was stuck in line at Disneyland, only this pizza place was no Space Mountain. The cheap beer made a nice ride, though. After we finished, Maria and I decided to try our hand at making a pie, so we set to work. The hardest things about pizza are the dough and the cheese—not to mention agreeing what to put on it—so we made two pizzas from the same dough and contributed...
TYPE SLOWLY
By Whet Moser / April 6, 2004
The GWB media blitz—supported by the largest war chest in campaign history1—distinguished itself by immediately pissing everybody off in the most predictable way possible. Not only did they send the media up in arms, they couldn’t find an unexpected way to do it, which worried wonks like Michael Isikoff and/or his unnamed sources. “But privately,” he wrote, “some GOP strategists were disturbed by the backlash and suggested the ad team had misjudged how the imagery would play.” Better than Isikoff lets on.2 The more interesting question—proposed by writers like Ryan Izza—is why the Bush machine would kick off its media...
TYPE SLOWLY
By Whet Moser / April 6, 2004
The GWB media blitz—supported by the largest war chest in campaign history1—distinguished itself by immediately pissing everybody off in the most predictable way possible. Not only did they send the media up in arms, they couldn’t find an unexpected way to do it, which worried wonks like Michael Isikoff and/or his unnamed sources. “But privately,” he wrote, “some GOP strategists were disturbed by the backlash and suggested the ad team had misjudged how the imagery would play.” Better than Isikoff lets on.2 The more interesting question—proposed by writers like Ryan Izza—is why the Bush machine would kick off its media...
Dogville explores degradation, sexual compromise, and…Nicole Kidman?
By Eric Park / April 6, 2004
One bright, cool summer day, a casual brunch date with a good friend got ugly. She, a self-proclaimed socialist, made it commonplace during most of our meetings to deem my standing on politics conservative, based on the premise that I would not endorse a regime change in our free-market economy. She suspected I harbored other radical notions and hit me with that do-or-die expression across her face, asking where I stood on the issue that really seems to seal your fate with doom in many circles: abortion. “That offends me as a woman!” she screeched with a register of shock,...
Unicorns run circles around Ponys, Beans
By Libby Pearson / April 6, 2004
Libby: Hi, Jenn. Jenn: Hello, chuffster. Libby: Jenn, my wife, what did you do last night? Jenn: Something magical. I ventured into the nether-regions called the Logan Square Auditorium. It’s an interesting place for a concert, kinda like a high school auditorium. It seems like a lot of people don’t know about it. And they have cool concerts. Like Mum (pronounced Moom). Libby: I happened to be there as well. And what did I see? But Unicorns of course! And Ponys and Beans. It was a veritable festival of creatures. Beans aren’t creatures, but we’ll come back to that later....
Unicorns run circles around Ponys, Beans
By Libby Pearson / April 6, 2004
Libby: Hi, Jenn. Jenn: Hello, chuffster. Libby: Jenn, my wife, what did you do last night? Jenn: Something magical. I ventured into the nether-regions called the Logan Square Auditorium. It’s an interesting place for a concert, kinda like a high school auditorium. It seems like a lot of people don’t know about it. And they have cool concerts. Like Mum (pronounced Moom). Libby: I happened to be there as well. And what did I see? But Unicorns of course! And Ponys and Beans. It was a veritable festival of creatures. Beans aren’t creatures, but we’ll come back to that later....
Remake of horror classic is fresh out of brains
By Matt Zakosek / April 2, 2004
As a film critic, there are certain rules I obey to maintain the integrity of my craft. Obviously I silence my cell phone when I enter the theater; sometimes I take notes; and, knowing how important it is for the audience to remain captive under the filmmaker’s spell, I try to refrain from talking. However, when the movie is as bad as Dawn of the Dead, the remake of the 1979 George A. Romero horror classic, that last stipulation becomes difficult to follow. Exactly how bad is this movie? It’s so bad that we don’t even learn the heroine’s first...
Remake of horror classic is fresh out of brains
By Matt Zakosek / April 2, 2004
As a film critic, there are certain rules I obey to maintain the integrity of my craft. Obviously I silence my cell phone when I enter the theater; sometimes I take notes; and, knowing how important it is for the audience to remain captive under the filmmaker’s spell, I try to refrain from talking. However, when the movie is as bad as Dawn of the Dead, the remake of the 1979 George A. Romero horror classic, that last stipulation becomes difficult to follow. Exactly how bad is this movie? It’s so bad that we don’t even learn the heroine’s first...
Much-hyped Brooklyn band spins its wheels on sophomore effort
By Andrew Marchesseault / April 2, 2004
Anyone can tell you that it sucks to reach your peak on your first try. In any field, in any profession, in any art form, early success can sometimes portend future greatness, but more often it raises expectations to an impossibly high level that no one can again hope to reach. Perhaps in no other medium is this seen more than in the music industry, where a band’s first album is sometimes its best and its only brush with immortality. It happens to the greats, too; some would argue, for example, that neither the Velvet Underground nor R.E.M. ever topped...
If these walls could talk, Libby would tell them to shut the hell up
By Libby Pearson / April 2, 2004
In his book If These Walls Could Talk, Thomas A. Habib, Ph.D., says, “Be skeptical of fast-food-like sources that rarely provide background information to help you understand the reality.” Nowhere in Habib’s book, book jacket, or website does he tell us what university his Ph.D. is from. The premise of the book is that Habib will give you the stories of real people he has counseled and the real solutions that helped them. He has selected these people’s situations because they can teach us all a lesson or two. However, in hiding the details of his patients’ lives until they...
Romanticism tempers Brahms and Beethoven for remarkable concert
By Manasi Vydyanath / April 2, 2004
It was easily one of the most remarkable concerts of the season, superbly programmed and brilliantly performed—the kind of event that leaves a critic with very little to say but much to discuss. Maxim Vengerov and Fazil Say interpreted the repertoire with a rare synthesis of drama and power—integrating their overarching, stereoscopic vision with an exquisite eye for detail. They commenced with Bach’s first violin sonata in B minor, BWV 1014, the first in a suite of six (technically, a suite of five, as the sixth does not conform to the general pattern of the cycle). This errant sonata, BWV...
Decisions, decisions: you choose the ingredients at this North Side hot spot
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / April 2, 2004
Chicago’s weather has taken a turn for the warmer. For most of us, winter meant long hours in the Reg, studying and working on our nonexistent tans under the harshly-artificial lights. For me, it meant all of those things, plus more than my fair share of exam panic—and bags under my eyes that could have hidden bin Laden without much effort. I normally don’t find myself outside Hyde Park during the coldest days of winter (minus the very necessary trips into Chinatown, which hardly count). In the course of a normal winter week, I tend to beat a path between...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / April 2, 2004
Friday Jordan Catalano. That’s teenage girl Kryptonite right there. Oh, Jordan. Poor, illiterate Jordan. If this name’s not ringing any nostalgia bells in your brain right now, you’re missing out on one of the best TV dramas of our time, My So-Called Life. Tonight, the Noggin makes me a happy girl by starting their re-airing of the ill-fated drama. Unfortunately, they’re not showing the pilot, but we can still kick it into gear with the second episode, “Dancing in the Dark” (which originally aired September 9, 1994). Angela is still in the early stages of her Jordan obsession, Brian lies...
Chicago Symphony Orchestra: Two out of three ain’t bad
By Manasi Vydyanath / March 12, 2004
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra, with Charles Dutoit conducting, presented a curiously polarized concert last Saturday, with brusque oppositions of extreme ennui and superb expressiveness. The program commenced with Fauré’s Pelléas et Mélisande suite Op.80 and ended with excerpts from Prokofiev’s Romeo and Juliet, both variations upon one of the most popular themes in the history of artistic expression—”a pair of star cross’d lovers.” Fauré’s suite was originally written as incidental to Maeterlinck’s play of the same name and was later re-worked into a symphonic suite. Versions of Pelléas and Mélisande have been composed by Sibelius, Fauré and Schoenberg, but these...
University Theater’s Wintertime tackles domestic drama with humor
By Jack Tamburri / March 12, 2004
Wintertime, this weekend’s University Theater production, opens with a young man and his girlfriend arriving at a secluded family vacation home to spend the winter holidays alone together. That’s before they are interrupted by his mother and her male lover—not to mention his father and his male lover, the lesbian couple from next door, the mother’s lover’s one-night-stand from the previous spring, and a delivery man insisting that someone has to sign for a computer. The play, written by Charles Mee, is full of lyric monologues and replete with rhythmic exchanges. Outbursts of Bugs Bunny-esque violence in the dialogue may...
Dylan: not freewheelin’m but still kickin’
By Brad Heffern / March 12, 2004
It’s the same thing every time I leave a Dylan concert. The looks of dazed incomprehension. Disappointment. Some people even look pretty pissed as they mutter, “I couldn’t understand a goddamn word he said!” The reason is simple—for most people seeing Bob Dylan these days, the definition of a Dylan album is The Essential Bob Dylan. That’s a shame for a number of reasons, not the least of which is that Bobby just doesn’t play the hits anymore. Sure, he’ll throw in a little “All Along the Watchtower” in the encore to keep the laser lights away, but if you...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / March 12, 2004
*Friday* If the phrase “Capitol N, small Y, big fucking Q” isn’t immediately familiar, there’s a major hole in your comedy knowledge. Denis Leary’s “No Cure for Cancer” performance is one of the all-time great stand-up shows. Yeah, it’s a bit dated—it first aired in 1993—but Leary is so caustic, so raunchy, so New York that it’s still goddamn hilarious. He rails on the NRA, vegetarians, and just about everything else. It’s on Comedy Central, so all the potty words will be bleeped out—which is kind of a crime for this act—but it’s worth the edited hour for some serious...
21 and Over with Dorothea Hunter
By Dorothea Hunter / March 9, 2004
Sonotheque (www.sonotheque.org, 1444 West Chicago Avenue) If you like drinking and looking at naked women (but have issues with going to strip joints or being labeled “sleazy”), I have a place for you: Sonotheque. Sonotheque is a strange, alluring place—taking into consideration the two large TVs over the bar playing short videos with naked women occasionally making appearances. Sonotheque is a futuristic-looking lounge. It’s located way out west on Chicago Avenue, and it sticks out like a sore thumb from its surroundings. Given that there is no sign with its name, it’s essential for something else to make it stand...
The Florestan Trio: Keeping romanticism alive
By Christian Kraus / March 9, 2004
Contemporary musicians can sometimes seem like management consultants—extremely well trained, unsentimental, a little technocratic, reliable in method, and efficient in execution. These musicians, whether intellectuals or not, share a suspicion against overindulgent sentimentality. They mistrust the grand melodic line that sobs with vibrato; they feel uneasy dwelling too long in untainted beauty. They prefer their music to be transparent, purged of inscrutable Teutonic mysteries; they like their passages rough, and their staccatos sharp and witty. Across the board, they are impeccable examples of technical perfection. I don’t have anybody specific in mind here. Many of today’s classical performers embody some...
Pelican: Your home stereo pales in comparison to the real thing
By Nicholas Hudac / March 9, 2004
I was waiting for my friends to arrive outside the Bottom Lounge when I noticed the door handle quivering. I quickly rubbed my eyes—thinking that I had spent a little too much time in the library stacks earlier in the evening—but a second stare confirmed the fact that the solid brass handle was indeed pulsating to some unknown beat. I was puzzled. What on earth was shaking the door? Were they doing construction on the Belmont stop half a block north? No, couldn’t be. That was too far away. I swore I heard some hammering—the oddly rhythmic thumping that is...
Style with Diana Michelle Fox
By Diana Fox / March 9, 2004
Vintage shopping. These words always held such intrigue for me, mainly because the actual thing always seemed like a massive, daunting task. I’ve never known where to begin—vintage clothing, after all, encompasses most clothes that are, say, pre-1985. Furthermore, I’ve never known quite where to go to vintage shop—my few attempts in Belmont were basically fruitless. However, the thought of “real” vintage shops has always produced a romantic desire in me to indulge in fashion nostalgia. I love to drool over the clothes my mother might have worn as a girl and pour over classic clothes that could have come...
Snoop Doggy Dogg: He fought the law and won
By Tim Michaels / March 9, 2004
The infamous king of gangsta rap, Snoop Doggy Dogg, has abandoned his deviant lifestyle. He’s shifted his focus from drugs and booze to his role of Huggy Bear in the comedy Starsky and Hutch. The film, which opened on March 5, is an adaptation of the popular ’70s TV series, in which two streetwise cops bust Bay City criminals in a white and red Ford Torino. The show—one of Aaron Spelling’s first TV productions—was an icon of the disco era, featuring full-throttle car chases, offbeat humor, and colorful characters. The 2004 film version stars Ben Stiller as Starsky and Owen...
Starsky and Hutch battle the evil Reese Feldman, bad ’70s fashion
By Joseph Hanson / March 9, 2004
I’m sure there will come a time when today’s popular sitcoms are adapted into full-length movies. By that time, the majority of the humor will come from the chemistry of the cast, and connections to the old TV show will be unnecessary. And you know what? If that movie is as funny as Starsky & Hutch, I won’t care. Starsky & Hutch is the latest film by director Todd Phillips, whose previous two movies, Old School and Road Trip, should give you a pretty good idea of what you’re getting into. The star power of Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, and...
Little Shop: Audience eats up UT’s innovative take
By Hana Yoo / March 9, 2004
Part of theater’s appeal is the impossibility of exactly reproducing a past performance. The audience knows on some level that it is witnessing something unique. As Artaud wrote in No More Masterpieces, “the theater is the only place in the world where a gesture, once made, can never be made the same way twice.” Watching UT’s production of Little Shop of Horrors, I felt that I was watching a distinctive performance but not just because of the it-will-never-happen-again-just-in-this-way quality of such performances. This version of Little Shop of Horrors made some deliberate and surprising choices for various aspects of the...
Aaron Copland: the man, his music, and McCarthyism
By Greg Weinstein / March 5, 2004
On Tuesday, May 26, 1953, Aaron Copland appeared as a witness before the Senate committee headed by Joseph McCarthy. Summoned because of his past relationship with the American government—he served as an international lecturer and Fulbright professor—he was assaulted with a series of questions designed to ascertain his past and present political affiliations. While his answers were understandably evasive and disingenuous (McCarthy enumerated 27 so-called communist fronts to which Copland belonged!), the whole affair gives rise to a number of questions. Most importantly, how does a composer revered for his creation of characteristically American music come to be implicitly labeled...
Barenboim earns stardom after powerhouse performance
By Anne Lovering Rounds / March 5, 2004
When Chicago’s classical music superstar, Daniel Barenboim, walked onstage on Friday night, I was skeptical of the audience’s preemptive standing ovation. I was no less skeptical of the easy confidence with which he accepted it. Aware of the position he occupied in this audience’s heart, he bowed to the full house. But then, in a gem of a performance of Beethoven’s Second piano concerto, Maestro Barenboim proved himself fully worthy of the premature accolade he had just received. Barenboim conducted from the piano, from memory. This mainly consisted of him looking intensely at Mathieu Dufour, the principal flutist, nearly lunging...
Take a cue from the goddess of wisdom and discover Chicago’s Greek cuisine
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / March 5, 2004
Chicago has a reputation for amazing food. I write restaurant reviews. Therefore, whenever anyone comes to visit me, I’m responsible for making sure we eat well. Even I am hard-pressed to find a believable excuse to justify living off of Pad See Ew from the Snail every Friday and Saturday (despite my lingering fondness for that Hyde Park mainstay). So when my mother and brother flew in for a weekend visit, I knew that in addition to showing off my cavernous room in the Shoreland and favorite nooks and crannies around campus, it was the perfect time to show off...
Mountain Goats shall Heal the musically challenged with new release
By Whet Moser / March 5, 2004
John Darnielle is a former psychiatric nurse who now works with disturbed children four days a week. He is the proprietor of Last Plane to Jakarta, one of the more elegant and thoughtfully considered music ‘zines on the Internet, and an occasional contributor to other publications on the subject of popular music. He has a Ph.D. and lives in North Carolina with his wife, a lab technician who specializes in plant pathology. He is also one of the most prolific and gifted singer/songwriters of the last decade. His band, The Mountain Goats, are a cult favorite—small enough to still be...
She don’t mean a thing if she ain’t got that swing
By Mara Stankiewicz / March 5, 2004
She screams. She whines. She whispers. She provocatively swings the hips of her voice, making lines like “I’ll take you out, boy” tease and thrill. At the Yeah Yeah Yeahs concert Tuesday night at the Metro, Karen O’s vibrato—full of sexual energy and excitement—translated even the crudest mutterings into delightfully chic ones. From animated, low-pitched growls in “Art Star” to love-ridden, shaky utterances in “Maps,” Karen O’s concert antics supplied the worshipful crowd with tantrums of style and emotion. The Yeah Yeah Yeahs’ glam/garage/punk-rock music is indisputably eclectic—maybe stemming from the quirkiness of the liberal arts-educated members. Karen O (Orzolek)...
Style with Diana Michelle Fox
By Diana Fox / March 2, 2004
The weather that we’ve been enjoying for the past week has made me quite cheerful. The wind blows lightly, the brilliant sun shines high in the clear sky, and the birds chirp loudly. Such warm weather has gotten me thinking about a few upcoming matters: spring break, the quick approach of finals, and most of all—spring wardrobes! Yes, readers, it’s time to delve into spring clothes. With the current, beautiful climate, how can we not desire to discard our sweaters and winter coats in favor of swishy skirts and sandals? Despite the fact that the gorgeous weather may not last,...
21 and Over with Dorothea Hunter
By Dorothea Hunter / March 2, 2004
It’s oddly fitting that when I looked up “Moda” on metromix.com, both Moda and Lot 48 came up; coincidentally, I went to each on Saturday night and I was planning on writing about them. Lot 48’s description expresses its desire to be Lincoln Park’s answer to Moda. It’s true they both emanate a swank aura (complete with modern decor and clubby lighting concepts), but that’s where the similarities end. Lot 48 The night began at Lot 48. First of all, the biggest difference between Lot 48 and Moda is that they are completely different types of clubs. Lot 48 is...
Osama examines gender roles under Taliban rule
By Nicholas Baer / March 2, 2004
The opening scene of Siddiq Barmak’s film Osama is one of incredible urgency and power. Shot with a handheld camera, the chaotic scene depicts a crowd of completely veiled women who are marching through an Afghani town carrying signs proclaiming “We Want Work.” Amidst this display of political upheaval, Taliban members arrive on the scene and aim fire hoses at the women, leaving many brutally injured. The scene, shot in the manner of a documentary, acknowledges that the film itself is based on a true story and that it utilizes non-actors, all of whom are people from the city of...
St. Lawrence Quartet gives clarinestist Todd Palmer the strings to fly
By Manasi Vydyanath / March 2, 2004
Intriguing, refreshing, piquant, powerfulthese were some of my impressions of the performance last Friday by the St. Lawrence String quartet (with Geoff Nuttall and Barry Shiffman on violin, Lesley Robertson on viola, and Chris Costanza on cello.) They began with Joseph Haydn’s Op. 64, no. 2 in B minor, followed by Maurice Ravel’s ravishing quartet in F major and Osvaldo Golijov’s Dreams and Prayers of Isaac the Blind. The most striking feature of the ensemble is their tone—arresting, individualistic and visceral—as opposed to the smoothly blended, integrated timbre that one finds in certain ensembles where the strings mingle flawlessly and...
Art rockers 90 Day Men suck Empty Bottle dry
By Nicholas Hudac / March 2, 2004
I was half a block away from the Empty Bottle when I started panicking. Right in front of me, I could see the line of hipsters and cute indie-rock girls stretching out of everyone’s favorite seedy dive, in numbers growing by the minute. Through the front window, I could see the bouncer nervously fingering a “Sold Out” sign like a prison shiv, waiting for the prime moment to strike. Could I make it? My lungs were singed by the icy winter air. Before the panic hit, my evening had been shaping up to be a nice, quiet, uneventful occasion. I...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / February 27, 2004
*Friday* I can’t get enough TLC. Trading Spaces, A Wedding Story, A Personal Story (which should just be called A Plastic Surgery Story), What Not to Wear—it’s all good stuff. I even like While You Were Out. Tonight is a very special episode, and not just because the room they’re redesigning is the smallest the crew has ever done: Jesse, on the receiving end of the surprise, is in a wheelchair. So the room can’t just be hokey crap and sloppy craftsmanship; it has to be wheelchair-accessible, too. TLC’s description of the episode tells us tonight’s surf-themed room could “be...
Oscars: root for Robbins, keep your fingers crossed for Castle-Hughes
By Matt Zakosek / February 27, 2004
By this point, you’ve probably read an infinite number of articles about the 76th Annual Academy Awards. That is, if you care at all. Well, I’m not going to offer any fancy odds or pretend that there won’t be any surprises. Instead, I’ll simply explain who I think will win, who I think should win, and why. Oh, and we’ll also take a look at who might have been nominated but wasn’t. (Somewhere, Nicole Kidman is cryingon a bed of money. What, you thought I’d feel sorry for her?!) BEST PICTURE The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / February 27, 2004
The scene was all heat when I arrived. Two friends of mine were going up against a few guys with chins that could cut ice. I didn’t want to see what their fists could do, so we got out of there faster than you could say brass knuckles on a cold afternoon. Turns out they were in for it from this restaurateur, an old connected fella whose place had the best Italian dishes in town. My friends wanted to spill the beans on a couple of his recipes, but they didn’t get very far. Later that night, I wanted to...
Violinist befriends orchestra, bings youthful fury to difficult concerto
By Nick Morrison / February 27, 2004
The Parallels and Paradoxes series at the CSO this month focuses on the music of Beethoven and Schoenberg. Pairings, all conducted by Daniel Barenboim, have included Beethoven’s Symphony #9 with Schoenberg’s A Survivor from Warsaw, Beethoven’s Symphony #5 with Schoenberg’s Piano Concerto, and Beethoven’s Symphony #3 with Schoenberg’s Violin Concerto. Still to come is Beethoven’s Piano Concerto #4 with Schoenberg’s Variations for Orchestra. Tickets for this last performance, which runs February 26-28, were still available at press time. I attended the third concert in this series last Thursday. Unsurprisingly, the Schoenberg violin concerto was first on the program. Trying to...
UT’s Under Milk Wood: better heard than seen
By Devin Cain / February 27, 2004
I was thrilled at the end of last quarter when I heard that UT was putting on a production of Dylan Thomas’s seminal work Under Milk Wood (Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m., First Floor Theatre, Reynolds Club). I was apprehensive as well—terrified, even—to learn that it was going to be acted out. This may seem an odd thing to worry about during the production of a play—that it is to be acted—but the subtitle of Under Milk Wood is: “A Play for Voices.” In other words, it is a play to be read aloud (perhaps over a radio, perhaps in...
Brad Mehldau evolves on latest jazz experiment
By Eric Benson / February 24, 2004
Over the past 10 years, Brad Mehldau has created a body of piano trio music to rival some of the most hallowed names in the jazz canon. When Mehldau broke onto the jazz scene in the early ’90s, he was celebrated as one of the more articulate members of a rising school of young, Bill Evans—influenced pianists. As the years progressed, many of his equally promising classmates failed to grow, wallowing in a style that values virtuosity at the expense of subtlety. Mehldau, on the other hand, has emerged from those heady, early years as the most sensitive pianist of...
Sybris, Timeout Drawer, and the Detholz: noise with a high I.Q.
By Nicholas Hudac / February 24, 2004
I hate Valentine’s Day. Call me a misanthrope, but to my mind no other organized holiday exists with such untamed malice as the Day of Love. Between the agony of sitting next to couples longingly gazing into each other’s vapid eyes on the subway and the silent humiliation radiating from the man in the gorilla suit forced to deliver a dozen roses and a half-hearted jig to somebody’s better half, Valentine’s Day goes out of its way to break the spirit. It demands a tithe of blood, cash, or dignity, and woe upon you should you choose to defy it....
Barenboim and Serkin collaborate on classics with mixed results
By Manasi Vydyanath / February 24, 2004
The concert by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra—Daniel Barenboim conducting, Peter Serkin as piano soloist—on the February 17 included Bach’s Concerto for Two Harpsichords, BWV 1061; Schoenberg’s Piano Concerto Op. 42; and Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony. Structurally and aesthetically, the Bach concerto seemed discongruous. One could perceive that it had been placed there to illustrate a historical progression, but the concerto as it was performed did not provide that sense of continuity. It did not explain or predict the Beethoven and Schoenberg. It fell into the category of “core repertoire padding.” That is, it was meant to ensure that the audience starting...
21 and Over with Dorothea Hunter
By Dorothea Hunter / February 24, 2004
The thing that sticks in my mind about Lincoln Station (2432 North Lincoln Avenue, www.lincolnstation.com) is how young the crowd was. There really was a consistent crowd of 20-somethings the whole night. I am pretty positive that no one was under 21 (only a few people looked questionable) and no one was over 30—pretty nice, considering how strange it is to walk in a bar where the crowd is clearly older (or younger, if it’s known to be easy on fake IDs.) Something else about this bar’s crowd was also striking, though. “It’s quite a sausage-fest in here,” exclaimed one...
Style with Diana Michelle Fox
By Diana Fox / February 24, 2004
Around this time of the year, I feel a little like I am falling off a cliff. No, I don’t speak of winter blues, the approach of finals week, or the mess that’s piling up in my apartment. I speak of a sadly neglected area in the life of most college students—our health. I always start the school year super healthy after I’ve had the summer to do as I please. I spent part of this past spring and summer hiking through Grecian isles, cycling through the southern Netherlands, swimming in my pool, and tanning at the Jersey shore. As...
The Poster Children: alterna-rock all grown up
By Mara Stankiewicz / February 20, 2004
Growing up with three brothers and no sisters was both a blessing and a curse. Fights almost always ended with them shaking my Barbie Dream House until my meticulously-arranged balcony foliage and furniture fell to the carpet in a plastic mess, and I ran like hell to my mother. The positive memories, however, outlast the negative ones—like riding on my oldest brother’s coattails through the wonderful world of early ’90s alternative rock. I may not have had a sister’s closet from which I could steal clothes, but I did have my oldest brother’s CD tower. I had a whole assortment...
Double Door brings out the best in Metric, leaves Sout out in the cold
By Nicholas Hudac / February 20, 2004
I was huddled in a tiny, poster-encrusted recess somewhere in Wicker Park, feebly cursing the Chicago winter when I first caught sight of my nemesis out of the corner of my eye: The Double Door. I backed away warily. You need more than sheer guts to survive the Double Door—you need a certain cutthroat ruthlessness and a finely tuned bullshit detector just to make it within sight of the stage. If you want to get to out, however, you need a plan. I hid in a hot dog joint while I went over the reconnaissance briefing in my mind. The...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / February 20, 2004
*Friday* I took a little flak for recommending Degrassi: The Next Generation last week, but I stand by my assertion that the Noggin is the kickingest kids’ channel ever. Their other flagship show, Radio Free Roscoe, is a bit sharper and sassier than Degrassi, with the crazy adventures of four wacky Canadian high school students and their underground radio show. Lily, Robbie, Ray, and Travis broadcast after school under pseudonyms, critiquing school policies (no headphones!), bitching about their asshole principal (doesn’t care about the Boxer Revolution!), and investigating neighborhood crimes (bike theft!). Yeah, it’s probably a little lame to be...
Delirium Records channels Madonna with mixed-bag collection of covers
By Matt Zakosek / February 20, 2004
As the biggest fan of Madonna who has never actually stalked her, I usually feel that the less said about remakes of her effervescent pop tunes, the better. Madhouse’s “Like a Prayer” was a modest hit, receiving play on some urban dance stations, but its relentless techno beat flattened the emotion of the original. Teenage Fan Club’s “Like a Virgin” achieved innovation only by adding a squawk of feedback at the beginning of the song. And Kelly Osbourne’s “Papa Don’t Preach”well, the Material Girl herself never commented on that cover. (She probably figured that if she didn’t have anything nice...
Mandel Hall: something new, something old
By Christian Kraus / February 20, 2004
This is the contradiction of the age: We don’t want to be ourselves, yet we don’t want to be who we were. Take music. Many of us would be hard-pressed to call much contemporary music beautiful. It might be fascinating, stimulating, innovative, experimental, avant-garde—but beautiful? And being beautiful, thereby deeply fulfilling? The music composed today, whatever else it gives us, withholds consummate satisfaction. Such satisfaction, it seems, is found in the great works of the past. And certainly, if they are deeply satisfying, this has to mean that they are still contemporary—that they still capture something about us and thus...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh / February 20, 2004
I was still recovering from Valentine’s Day when Maria burst through my door. She knocked me back like a .38 caliber, but then again, a good dame always knocks you off your feet. She had just seen Iron Chef for the first time, and she was like a kid at Christmas after watching the show. Maria and I were so busy that we couldn’t find time to cook in the past week, so we watched the show whenever it came on. The three Iron Chefs were masters of their art and kicked ass all over Kitchen Stadium. We decided every...
UT subUrbia melds great acting and 7-Eleven
By Luba Kontorovich / February 20, 2004
You should see subUrbia—director Caitlin Doughty’s take on a mid-90s play by Eric Bogosian. You’ve already missed one opportunity; only tonight and tomorrow night remain. I don’t think I can recommend a University Theatre production more highly than this one. Bogosian has built his career on his depictions of people who are fearful and anxious but often do not have the tools to communicate these emotions in a way that will help make sense of things—either for them or those they interact with. subUrbia is no exception to this predilection of Bogosian’s. The play follows a group of 20-something’s over...
mono: the latest sound epidemic spreads among American hipsters
By Yoshi Salaverry / February 20, 2004
Yoshi: When I first heard the opening of mono’s “Karelia (Opus 2)” from their debut album on John Zorn’s label Tzadik, I didn’t know what to expect. Initially, the quiet, echoing guitars seemed reminiscent of “Where the Streets have No Name,” but the song takes even longer to build; as it did, it slowly dawned on me that this 12-minute epic wasn’t even in the same multiverse as U2’s pop song. It is more a squall of distortion, ethereal violin, and tribal drums than a conventional “rock song.” Then the thunder and lightning gradually subside, but—to continue the metaphor—that’s just...
Come for the tapas, but be sure to desert the dessert
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / February 17, 2004
Sometimes it seems like the vast majority of my activities outside of academia center around food. Whether it’s the rather tired dinner and a movie (or museum exhibit, theater show, etc.), meeting friends for lunch, or even taking a break from studying over a steaming mug of hot chocolate, a rather inordinate number of social events are centered around eating. I’m not sure if it’s part and parcel of college life, something about Chicago in the winter, or a personal issue. The point is that the sheer volume of meals one must consume causes the number of truly memorable ones,...
Serkin gets serious, takes audience on journey through post-war music
By John Zhu / February 17, 2004
Sunday afternoon’s Peter Serkin recital was a grab bag of intense music featuring the somber likes of Takemitsu, Berio, and Messiaen. The highlight of the afternoon, however, was the Diabelli Variations by Beethoven, concluding a performance that showcased both Serkin’s lyricism and technical finesse. The first half of the concert was a kaleidoscopic journey through post-war twentieth-century music. Takemitsu’s Far Away, inspired partly by Finnegan’s Wake and partly by a Javanese Gamelan performance, has an eerily Messiaen-like feel to it. The selections from Messiaen’s Des Canyons aux Etoiles serve as a paradigm of the composer’s style: primordial, chromatic, and religiously...
Christie brings les arts to life in Symphony Hall
By Andy Greenwood / February 17, 2004
Given the dominance of repertories of late periods over much earlier music, what is peculiar and interesting about the music to audiences today? This question was raised when Christie’s Les Arts Florissants received a warm set of ovations at the conclusion of their performance of two of Charpentier’s chamber operas (Les arts florissants and La descente d’Orphe aux enfers) at Symphony Hall. Surely the local audience is not just pleased that the performance wasn’t a warm up and experiment for New York City. I suggest that, whether we are aware of it or not, perhaps the fascination lies with the...
Style with Diana Michelle Fox
By Diana Fox / February 17, 2004
Readers: how many of you need a vacation? I’m sure almost all of you would answer in the affirmative, with most undergraduate “breaks” having dissipated into hours of midterm preparation and final exams and papers looming on the horizon. So this week I depart from my usual functional-product rating, and I instead invite you to take a mini-vacation in an electrifying, whimsical, artistic world: the world of haute couture. Haute couture, literally “high sewing” in French, is the ultra-creative and ultra-showy side of the runway shows. Haute couture garments are custom-sewn and can take up to 150 hours to make....
21 and Over with Dorothea Hunter
By Dorothea Hunter / February 17, 2004
Considering how we all pay a lot of attention to the North Side of Chicago—Old Town, Lincoln Park, Wrigleyville (the list goes on)—I thought I should give the West Side some time in the limelight. I started my weekend off with a visit to Transit on Thursday night and capped it off with a Valentine’s Day stop at Rednofive. They were both lots of fun and good reasons to venture outside of the North Side for a change. Transit, 1431 W. Lake Street www.transit-usa.com If you like to dance, Transit is your place. Bumping and grinding is almost not optional...
Film examines effects of apartheid struggle
By Bianca Sepulveda / February 17, 2004
The Human Rights Program, in conjunction with the Humanities Division and the Film Studies Center, hosted its third event in an ongoing film series Sunday evening. The film, When the War Is Over, depicted the African struggle against apartheid, expressed through the day-to-day traumas of survivors from the Bonteheuwel Military Wing (BMW), a militant teenage self-defense unit from the mid-1980s and a guerrilla branch of the ANC. Originally presented at the 2002 film festival for Human Rights Watch, the filmmaker Francois Verster presents a vivid, compelling, and effectively disturbing depiction of life in Bonteheuwel. Focusing on two ex-activists, Gori and...
Despite casting pitfalls, UT Copenhagen puts best foot forward
By Devin Cain / February 17, 2004
First, let’s level: Copenhagen is a very good play. Or, at the very least, I happen to think it’s quite a good play, and I’m the one writing this review. But the question informing this space is whether University Theater turned in a good performance of that play on Friday night. By way of brief overview, the plot is straightforward: the physicists Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg, Danish and German respectively, met in late 1943 in Copenhagen. Heisenberg’s country was occupying Bohr’s. The two had not spoken in years, and their friendship and professional relationship had always been both intimate...
New Walkmen CD proves pretentious press kits are worth ignoring
By Nicholas Hudac / February 13, 2004
One of the dirty secrets that we music “journalists” keep locked away in a compartment (right next to our evil little hearts) is that good music reviews are almost never based on any sort of bias-free objective listening. Rather, we cultivate our own little sets of prejudices and fiercely defend our little fiefdom of musical interests from the murderous incursions of outside interests, ranging from our significant others to the music industry hype machine. Although some of you may be truly surprised by these revelations (and if you’re not, it means that the U of C has already begun to...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / February 13, 2004
*Friday* I loved Spellbound last year, and someone at Fox did, too. But it’s Fox, so they had to add a twist. And by “twist” I mean “celebrities,” and by “celebrities” I mean “B-list has-beens.” People who used to be sort of famous and are now struggling to pay their bills—including Brett Butler, George Wendt, Tatyana Ali, Alice Cooper, Harry Anderson, Meshach Taylor, and Erin Brodie—will square off in what promises to be a one-laugh gag on The Great American Celebrity Spelling Bee. Big ups for including two cast members from Dave’s World, by the way. Spelling is so awesome,...
Small Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh / February 13, 2004
Because love is life’s dessert and dessert is life’s love. *Chocolate Dream* 1 1/2 cups of whipping cream 4 egg yolks 3/4 cups sugar 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 3 ounces unsweetened chocolate Glaze: 1 can raspberries juice of 1 lemon 1/2 cup sugar 4 teaspoons cornstarch Cut the chocolate into small bits suitable for melting. Use a double boiler if you have it; otherwise, rest a microwave-safe bowl over a pot of boiling water, making sure the water does not touch the bowl. Add the chocolate and a quarter cup of the cream to the double boiler and stir,...
Style
By Diana Fox / February 13, 2004
This past week brought a revelation: natural beauty comes from within—within tubes, bottles, and jars, of course! Yes, beauty often starts with a product. And in order to keep the face looking beautiful, many of us (myself certainly included) start with a very specific product—the foundation bottle. Foundation is the first thing many girls put on in the morning, the last thing removed at night, and is the base for the rest of the well made-up face. Now, if you are extremely lucky, you might skip the foundation step altogether and just revel in your natural creamy glow, but I...
Rilo Kiley in concert: unplugged, but still weird
By Mehan Jayasuria / February 13, 2004
Oh, how misleading the word “acoustic” can be. Technically, the term implies only the use of non-electric instruments; nonetheless, it is usually assumed to carry connotations of “quiet.” Rilo Kiley’s “acoustic” set at the Abbey this past week, however, was anything but quiet. The show started out innocuously enough with a decidedly subdued set from Jake Bellows of up-and-comers Neva Dinova. Bellows played the type of melancholic folk-based rock that should be quite familiar to anyone who listens to music from Omaha. While he had a little bit of trouble keeping the audience’s attention, his set contained a few terrifically...
Kanye West should save hits for self, not Jay-Z
By Joe Hanson / February 13, 2004
Straight from producing hit tracks for Ludacris (“Stand Up”), Alicia Keys (“You Don’t Know My Name”), Jay-Z (“Encore”), and Talib Kweli (“Get By”), up-and-coming rap producer Kanye West releases his first solo album. And really, it’s about time. While other rappers pull all-nighters trying think of new sexual innuendos and rake the thesaurus for new ways to say “Shake Ya Ass,” Kanye’s been sneaking in beats for the last five years that are, at heart, old-school. By weaving sped-up “chipmunk” soul samples seamlessly between triumphant horns and throbbing bass, Kanye has created a sound that is uniquely his own. Take...
University Ballet: no dirty dancing, but you’ll have the time of your life
By Stephanie Leitch / February 13, 2004
Glimmering girls and boys with bits of rhinestones over their satiny fabric will all spin in Mandel Hall this weekend to the clockwork provided by George Balanchine. Balanchine, born in St. Petersburg in 1904, brought ballet to America in 1933 at the behest of the visionary Lincoln Kirstein. Balanchine had choreographed for impresario Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes in Paris. His derring-do, in a good season, made him the toast of the town; in alternate seasons, he was too infuriatingly modern. He decided to put his chips on Kirstein’s sketchy dream to inaugurate a tradition of ballet in the States. When he...
Cooperation is essential
By Maroon Editorial Staff / February 6, 2004
Students and community members met last night to organize a response to the alleged incident of police brutality against an SSA student last week. After organizers read an account of the incident, they prompted audience members to brainstorm appropriate responses. During the discussion, members of the University administration and the press were asked to leave the meeting. The Maroon believes requesting the press and administration officials to leave was ill-advised. Although any new or established group deserves its privacy—which was respected when all asked to leave did so without protest—if this new group wants to effect swift and meaningful change,...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / February 6, 2004
*Friday* I’ve written about Monk before, but I’m afraid that the advice hasn’t stuck. Monk is a brilliant show; funny and smart, quirky but credible. Tony Shalhoub is one of the best actors working today, period. His nuanced performance as the OCD Monk has earned him critical acclaim and a hit show. Monk solves crimes, and usually the plots are tricky enough to keep you interested but standard enough that you can figure out the mystery before the characters do. Which is way fun. This half-season, the supporting cast has stepped up its game and screen time, giving the show...
Assignments for musicians bring out best in Back
By Nicholas Betson / February 6, 2004
The University of Chicago Presents series invited the Brentano Quartet to come celebrate the 10th anniversary of Mandel Hall last weekend. The program was the Quartet’s birthday present to themselves; they had commissioned 10 leading composers to write reactions to Bach’s unfinished masterwork, The Art of Fugue. Each composer chose one canon, or fugue—called contrapuncti in Bach’s score—as the touchstone for his own work. The Brentano Quartet then performed each new composition along with its respective contrapunctus, treating the audience to a mix of the old and the new. The concert design also allowed a broad theme to come through:...
From the 21+ side of the ID divide
By Dorothea Hunter / February 6, 2004
Last Saturday, after making a brief appearance at Fiji’s Rock Stars and Groupies (come on—who doesn’t want cheap alcohol), I found myself heading up to Weed Street with my friend Meghan at 1 a.m. Despite the numerous bars and clubs dotting that awesome North Side street, our destination of choice was Joe’s. Officially, it is Joe’s Bar—not Sports Bar—so don’t let the basketball logo fool you. I’ve liked Joe’s ever since I paid my first visit during senior week last year. I only saw the front bar area (which is normally pretty tame, compared to the other areas of the...
Southern Culture should go back to roots
By Nicholas Hudac / February 6, 2004
I have a confession to make: I was a teenage greaser. Now, I’m not saying that I lacked personal hygiene (then or now), but that I was a bona fide roots rock fanatic, one who honestly thought that a greased-up pompadour, tight jeans, and engineer boots were not only cool, but would endear me to the hearts of women everywhere. Granted, such thoughts seem a bit silly (not to mention woefully ineffective) when looked back upon years down the line, but at the time, there was such a wonderful earthy earnestness in the music of a Charlie Feathers or a...
Occam’s Razor: comedy with sharp edges
By Mara Stankiewicz / February 3, 2004
Being that a best college bud of mine is in Occam’s Razor, one of two improv groups on campus, I came to their most recent show with a bit of an ego. His presence gave me the confidence I needed to shout out all scene suggestions that came to mind. Worst of all, it gave me the false belief that my called-out suggestions would receive priority for scenes. OK, so maybe “vibrator” isn’t the most usable object in a scene. And sure, “Champions on Ice” may not be the best suggestion for a setting, but was my friend’s idea of...
HBO’s Sex-y ladies ready for big finish
By Dorothea Hunter / February 3, 2004
It is only fitting that the ladies of Sex and the City went shopping during three of the first five episodes of the last half-season of the show (sob). The entire series has been a source of success not only for the actresses, but for the many designers that have been mentioned on the show as well. Designers must be thankful for the great props given to them by the Fabulous Four of TV’s most stylish show. Come on—before the advent of the quick-talking and quick-shopping bunch, how many people did you know who could recognize the name Manolo Blahnik...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh / February 3, 2004
The wind cut through me like a well-sharpened Wusthof as I trudged down the street. I was in the mood for something hot, and I wasn’t going to get it from the flask in my pocket. I wasn’t seeing Maria this week; she had flown south to escape the cold. I decided to make roast chicken with a sweet glaze and some garlic mashed potatoes. It was the warmest thing I could imagine, next to a bottle of hot sauce. These dishes serve 4. Pineapple Molasses Glazed Roast Chicken 1 whole chicken, cleaned and halved 2 tablespoons molasses 1 small...
Shortcut: The Pale
By Carolina Bolado / February 3, 2004
The Pale’s album cover is, well, pale, but in a pretty sort of way. I like nice album covers, so I decided to give the album a listen, despite my dislike of the band’s name (“pale” is NOT a noun and should not be used as such). Gravity Gets Things Done, like its album cover, is very pretty. The entire album is unabashed saccharine pop/rock with catchy hooks. The very first song, “Space to Move,” draws you in and has you humming along by the second verse. The band’s punk influence shines through on “Reasons to Try” and “Big Dumb...
Style with Diana Michelle Fox
By Diana Fox / February 3, 2004
I’ve never been a hat person. Well, almost never—there was that straw creation I wore incessantly the summer I was nine. However, since that infamous day when a gust of wind took it off my head and neatly deposited it in the fountain of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, a hat has rarely skimmed my head. I maintain that hats, whether straw, wide-brimmed, or the ubiquitous knitted cold-weather cap, are basically unflattering, and it takes real talent (or one hell of a hat) to pull them off correctly. You can see my cold weather problem here, which undoubtedly mirrors some...
Pacifica Quartet brings Beethoven, Haydn, touch of class to Mandel
By Jeremy Rosenberg / February 3, 2004
Programming new music is one of the issues facing the contemporary classical musician. Innovation must be supported if the art is to remain alive, and, yet, there is always the risk of alienating a rapidly dwindling audience. A program of all modern works could be a rather unappealing concert to the average listener, so programs that sneak a modern composition in between two long-established classics is one standard solution. Not to say that all contemporary compositions are difficult to understand. On the contrary, much of the music written today is, perhaps, easier for a modern audience to listen to than...
Friends, beware: bad choices are abundant here
By Nicholas Hudac / February 3, 2004
I’ve always been of two minds about singles collections. On one hand, I rarely think that an album’s best tracks are culled for singles. Furthermore, collections of nothing but singles do destroy the beauty of a well constructed album. Gone are the song pairings that make your hair stand on end, eye-catching cover art, interesting liner-notes, and anything else that makes an album stick out in the mind as something worth owning—something worth cherishing. It’s like going to the Lourve to see the Mona Lisa only to find that paragon of painting replaced with fragments of the famous smile pasted,...
Pop princess Spears to Material Mom: “Kiss me, baby, one more time”
By Matt Zakosek / January 30, 2004
Oopsshe did it again. After pretending to marry Madonna at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards, Britney Spears jetted off to Las Vegas with childhood friend Jason Alexander and got marriedfor real. Chicago’s RedEye ran a photo of bridal Britney—clad in gown and veil—on its front cover, obscuring the fact that this was a picture from her “wedding” with Madonna and not her wedding with Jason. (For her legal ceremony, the ever-stylin’ Brit wore blue jeans and a long-sleeved crop top). The couple had the union annulled 55 hours later, which prompted the question: Britney, what are you doing? Former...
Stiller finds love with Aniston, Riskmaster 3000
By Erin Leboff / January 30, 2004
Let me preface this with the fact that I have been anticipating this movie since the days when the Internet Movie Database listed it as Untitled John Hamburg Project. If I didn’t know otherwise, I’d say that John Hamburg camped out inside my (nonexistent) TiVo and then, upon noting my Must-See-TV-heavy viewing schedule, cast the movie accordingly. The pitch would go something like this: “Well, first and foremost, we’ve got to get Jennifer Aniston on board. And let’s put her with Ben Stiller, and throw Debra Messing in there, too. And how about Hank Azaria, just for good measure. And...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / January 30, 2004
*Friday* I’ve been watching The Surreal Life—professional research only, folks—and it’s made me want to know more about Ron Jeremy. I already know Trishelle from The Real World: Las Vegas, and I knew that Vanilla Ice is kind of an asshole, but Ron Jeremywell, be still my heart. There’s nothing like an aging porn star creeping out his weirdo housemates. But who is Ron Jeremy? Why is he so ugly? Porn Star: The Legend of Ron Jeremy, released in 2001, explores the back-story of “America’s most unlikely sex star.” Interviews with Larry Flynt, Seymour Butts, KISS, and Corey Feldman round...
Shoreland ballroom an imperfect setting for Hyde Park line up
By Hana Yoo / January 27, 2004
I cup my hands over my ringing ears and, cringing, curl my body against the wall. Spotting a fellow audience member wearing earplugs, I wish I’d had the foresight to buy some. The vibrations of the music, the pulsing, pounding beat, resonate through the room and through my body. Though it is a little after eight on a Friday night, and I feel more than ready to forget for a few hours that I have any obligations, I find myself wondering if homework would have been a preferable alternative to the first Shoreland rock show of 2004. The show, featuring...
Arias endear audience to century-old opera
By Manasi Vydyanath / January 27, 2004
In a concert review, it’s risky business to pronounce something good. If you don’t disparage at least two out of three performances you review, your criticism loses credibility. You gain the reputation of being naïve and too easy to please, and everyone ignores you. The surest way to acquire fame is to brilliantly demolish something deemed brilliant, and the art of damning with faint praise appears to be the ultimate sign of erudite sophistication. Having said that, I am prepared to state for the record that the recent performance of Camille Saint-Saëns’s Samson et Dalila at the Chicago Lyric Opera...
Get a Life with Erica Cerulo
By Erica Cerulo / January 27, 2004
I have no sense of direction. None. Zip. Once, I ended up in LaGrange when trying to drive back to campus from Chinatown. As a result, going to unfamiliar places is always an interesting experience because my “internal compass” is so out of sync. Studying abroad in Barcelona for the quarter, I have had to learn my way around, and, although the zigzag streets of the Raval area are still a wonder to me, I have learned how to get to a few key places. For instance, I know I’m at school when I see the huge Burberry on the...
Pelican outdoes headliner Appleseed Cast despite lighting, Parliament fog
By Evan Arnold and Ivan Khilko / January 27, 2004
Ivan: So there were two opening bands we conveniently missed. Do you remember what they were called? Evan: The first was Chin-Up Chin-Up, which “insulted the audience’s intelligence,” according to one person in attendance. According to the same audience member, the other band, the Cougars, “were like the grounds left behind after a terrible cup of coffee—the coffee was bad, but the grounds are just useless.” It looks like having trouble parking saved us. Thankfully, we arrived just in time for Pelican. Ivan: Yeah, thank god for Wrigleyville. Anywho, Pelican was incredible, way better than when I saw them with...
Style with Diana Michelle Fox
By Diana Fox / January 27, 2004
Readers: welcome to my style column! My aim at the beginning of each column is to take a common problem of the college student and attempt to solve it quickly, easily, and on a budget. And lately, my main problem every morning is with my shoes. Each day, I look out the window, notice the slushy condition, look at my shoe rack, and sigh. There is an incredible conflict between what I desire to wear on my feet and what can possibly survive the 15 minute walk to Classics undamaged. I am a great lover of the stiletto; there is...
New-Futurists: still fresh after all these years
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / January 27, 2004
For me, Friday nights at the University are usually reserved for dinner out or a night of recuperating from the demands of the week. Especially now, when the wind is cold enough to freeze just about any body part (as was nearly demonstrated during the polar bear run), it’s hard to work up even a little motivation to brave the CTA system to roam farther than the Snail. Nevertheless, there are still some things in Chicago worth the risk of frostbite. One notable example is a performance by the Neo-Futurists, one of Chicago’s highly regarded theater troupes. These performers write...
Wrens: good while a little rusty
By Jennifer Barnes / January 23, 2004
Let’s face it: I’m not in the U.K. anymore. When I opened my mouth to inquire about the show delay this past Saturday—the Wrens’ van broke down on its way to Schuba’s—no one turned his head to ask me if I was from the U.S. after telling me about his hometown outside of London. No one sexily informed me that Domino Records was selling all sorts of CDs and records from their catalog in the back corner. Nope. I was hardly responded to, just ushered into a line stretching out into the bitter cold. Where I stood. By myself. Knowing...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / January 23, 2004
*Friday* I can’t even count the number of times I’ve wondered what the Frank Zappa song “St. Alphonso’s Pancake Breakfast” is about. Wait, I kind of can, and that number is zero. But I’m still all jazzed up for this week’s episode of Dweezil & Lisa. Tonight, Dweezil (do I need to add Zappa? To distinguish him from other Dweezils?) and Lisa Loeb hit the road on a wild pancake extravaganza to explain the song and indulge in the Zappa family tradition of pancakes for dinner. Pancakes obviously rock, and (let’s be honest) no one rocks harder than Lisa Loeb,...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh / January 23, 2004
Tofu. Last year the word hit me and felt like cheap whiskey going down. The first time I tried tofu, it was limp like a soggy overcoat and tasted just as bad. But over the last year, I’ve had food that made me think otherwise. Maria and I had some great stuff at this vegetarian diner on the north side. The best thing about tofu is that it can soak up flavor, so tofu dishes can pack a punch like a .44 Magnum. Maria and I decided to try our hand at it, so we marinated some mushrooms and tried...
Win a Date with Tad Hamilton! mildly entertaining, but no great prize
By Dorothea Hunter / January 23, 2004
When you go to see a movie like this, you have to realize fully what you are getting yourself into. From the previews, the website, and the advertising campaign, you know that it is definitely a chick flick. You also know that it is going to be aimed at a younger audience (think 14 to 17-year-olds). With that said, you cannot go see this movie and expect it to be profound—it is a given that the plot will be somewhat predictable and that clichés will pervade the script. However, this does not mean that such a movie has to be...
The eateries of Chicago: a short journay can take you a long way
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / January 20, 2004
Growing up in the Midwest, one’s idea of comfort food can grow pretty narrow. As winter blusters into the Windy City with its typically freezing temperatures, mine revolves more and more around large bowls of my mom’s homemade chicken soup. Recently, I realized that one person’s exotic, cutting-edge cuisine is another’s old-fashioned, tried-and-true peanut butter and jelly sandwich. This rather bland statement—a truism nevertheless—is one of the great things about living in a large city that has so many different types of food available. Even if they’re not exactly at your fingertips here in Hyde Park, many of Chicago’s ethnic...
Barenboim can’t get Schumann piece off the ground
By Christian Kraus / January 20, 2004
It is, ultimately, about learning to fly. Schumann’s Piano Concerto in A minor famously begins with a flash and a surprising call to attention. It is followed by a chord sequence—almost hysterical in its punctuated rhythm—on the piano. We then switch over to the elegiac, silently disturbed main theme. One statement by the orchestra, one by the piano. Then the exercises can begin. A barely audible sound wave begins to emerge from the nether regions of each participant. The layers build up, the ground starts to move more flexibly and urgently. The sound swells, the flutes join the strings, and...
Small-Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh and Diane Dickel / January 16, 2004
Two things keep me warm this time of year, and one of them hangs on a hook by the door. The other runs me eight bucks a bottle. I was ready for a refill of the latter when a case burst through my door that told me I could move up to the expensive stuff. This lackey ran all over town for a big mobster in the area, and he was afraid his wife was running all over town on him. He paid top dollar for easy info, and I was going to take my time. Later that night, I...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / January 16, 2004
*Friday* Aaron Sorkin and I have a real and special relationship. This relationship has solidified over the years, what with his impeccable grammar and liberal politics. Also, we went to the same high school (go Raiders!). Tonight you can catch Sorkin at his finest. Before there was Sports Night, before there was West Wing, there was The American President. In fact, Sorkin decided to write Sports Night while writing The American President, since he was holed up in a hotel room watching SportsCenter four times a day. Michael Douglas stars as President Andrew Shepherd, an idealistic widower, first term prez,...
eighth blackbird provides a reason to forget the seventh and sixth
By William White / January 16, 2004
There is almost never a question about what a listener should expect regarding the virtuosity and playing capabilities of eighth blackbird. Not only are their individual skills as instrumentalists mind-blowing, but their ability to function together as a coordinated unit reveals an incredible musical understanding by each one of their members. The music they play would be a challenge for a conductor to put together; that they are able to perform such thorny scores and without any outside direction seems almost superhuman. That said, Tuesday evening’s concert was no disappointment. The program—Fitzell’s Violence, Chen Yi’s Qi, Steven Mackey’s Indigenous instruments,...
Charlize Theron: glamor girl or devil’s advocate?
By Nicholas Baer / January 16, 2004
To call someone a monster is to dehumanize him, to label him a one-dimensional embodiment of evil. What makes Patty Jenkins’s film Monster so remarkable is that it does for its real-life subject, Aileen Wuornos, the exact opposite of what its title does: it humanizes a woman whom most would dismiss. With almost unbelievable devotion, Jenkins empathizes with her subject, finding humanity and sympathy for this prostitute who killed many of her clients. Her film convincingly immerses the viewer in the psyche of a serial killer—no small feat. Jenkins is not exploiting her subject for the sake of drama here;...
Health&Beauty: The biggest thing out of Hyde Park since Yum-Yum?
By Healthy Booty / January 13, 2004
The other day I saw what was left of rock ‘n’ roll crawl under the solid-state amp of a 13-year-old screamer from Idaho. He didn’t even wave goodbye, the apparition of a once-angry god of leather, rebellion, and noise! Whatever happened to rockers who rock with unapologetically gritty façade and inevitably dented and battered guitars, not stifled by the monolithic edifice of radio rock? What happened to the ear-piercing thrash machines and easy listening smoothtastic cheese, wafting through expensive car audio fabricated at the expense of Indonesians’ youth? Does anyone really care? Fuck you, Chicago. Enter the Metro, bastion of...
Margaret Cho discusses Britney, Justin, and those White House galas
By Matt Zakosek / January 13, 2004
The jacket of Margaret Cho’s popular 2001 memoir, I’m the One That I Want, describes her as a “comedian, icon, TV star, Hollywood casualty” and, finally, “fag-hag.” Mara Stankiewicz and Matt Zakosek, Voices co-editors, discovered even more sides of her when they sat down for an interview after her Saturday night concert. Here are a few excerpts: On Rosa Parks suing OutKast: That’s weird because the song is like a tribute to her. She’s definitely part of the history of an important civil rights movement. I don’t really know about the case. It’s the first I’ve heard of it, but...
The Bens: the ultimate test of shag, marry, or push off a cliff
By Mara Stankiewicz / January 13, 2004
What happens when a classically trained Southern piano player, a power-pop-playing Texan, and an acoustic guitar-toting Australian collaborate on an album? Approximately 15 minutes of pure listening enjoyment provided by none other than Ben Folds, Ben Kweller, and Ben Lee. Featuring only four songs, the EP may not last a car ride to the city, but the volume of musical talent and the span of genres will certainly provide some serious ear candy while it lasts. The first track, “Just Pretend,” contains a folky mix of acoustic guitar and buoyant piano accents. The vocal harmonies produced by the trio won’t...
Cinderella joins Rachmaninoff for classical fun
By Deidre Kelly / January 13, 2004
“There always is a reason when a work languishes in utter neglect.” While this knowing comment happens to have spewed from the pen of a former Chicago Women’s Symphony Association president in 1949, the sentiment behind it is common enough across the arts and the generations in America. With the exception of those indie rock fans to whom recognition by the “mainstream” is a sure sign of the absence of artistic integrity and merit, most audiences are comforted by the thought that the works they confront have survived some sort of selective process and have stood the tests of time....
A journey to Chinatown: come for the dim sum and then some
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / January 12, 2004
One of our favorite spots in Chicago (when the pressure of even being in the immediate vicinity of the Reg is too much to bear) is Chinatown. Since it’s a simple matter of jumping on the Red Line, Chinatown is also one of the easiest ethnic neighborhoods to reach from Hyde Park. The real reason I find myself in Chinatown so frequently is that I love Chinese food. Even as a first-year, I found myself wandering the crowded streets, breathing in air rich with mouth-watering smells as I explored the gift shops in search of beautifully painted chopsticks, affordable trinkets,...
New Honor System album unabashedly rises to the top
By Joseph Hanson / January 12, 2004
To the best of my knowledge, Rise and Run, the second full-length release from the Chicago-based Honor System, did not appear on a single year-end, best of, top ten, or any superlative or cumulative list. That is, of course, except for my own. This album’s best quality is also its biggest fault—it’s delivered without blushing. In the opening track, “Moving Day,” lead singer Dan Hanaway, founding member of The Broadways, delivers a succinct attack on Wal-Mart: “Another town laid to rest/ on the trophy shelf of progress/ The greatlandsTM ate the heartlands/ The bells ring ‘we sell for less.” Track...
Good Lord: Wherever you see it, there’s no disguising the quality
By Joseph Hanson / January 12, 2004
I imagine most people saw a midnight showing of Return of the King in a glitzy theater with booming surround sound. Nerds filed their way left and right in full attire as wizards and elves. There were eighty minutes of previews for every movie New Line is even thinking about making. Fans eagerly discussed upcoming scenes, clutching their dog-earned Tolkien copies like Bibles, but promptly shut up (or emitted girlish screams of glee) when the film began. Three hours and twenty minutes later, all were pleased. This, unfortunately, was not my experience. When the film opened, I was bagging groceries...
Burton’s Big Fish provides plenty to carp about
By Matt Zakosek / January 12, 2004
Big Fish seems to have lots to offer, riding into movie theaters on a wave of prestige. Six-time Oscar nominee Albert Finney portrays a dying patriarch; Ewan MacGregor hams it up in a role almost as showy as that of his love-stricken artist in Moulin Rouge; and Helena Bonham Carter tries to make us forget that her last major part was Susan in the Steve Martin flop Novocaine. Upon further reflection, however, I realized Finney’s first Oscar nod, for Tom Jones, was years ago, and his last nomination was for the overrated Erin Brockovich. MacGregor is beginning to grate on...
The Hidden Cameras teach us all an invaluable lesson
By Nicholas Hudac / December 2, 2003
Good morning, class. I’m Professor Hudac, filling in for your regularly scheduled teacher. I’m here to correct a few misconceptions regarding proper Monday evening procedure. According to more sensible individuals, Monday nights are times devoted to doing schoolwork, housework, or paying attention to your significant other. They are the nights that can set the tone for the entire week, and are not to be taken lightly for fear of lowering grades or standing in the workplace. Unfortunately for those of you who value “schoolwork,” “sleep,” or “steady relationships” over the fleeting pleasures of the flesh, a group called the Fiery...
Despite some added fluff, this writer may have found love, actually
By Dorothea Hunter / December 2, 2003
No, this headline does not refer to the love of my life—sorry, everyone, if you were looking for some juicy gossip. What it does refer to, though, is my recent obsession with the movie Love Actually, the endearing romantic comedy I’ve been raving about to my friends and family. It’s been out now for a few weeks, and I’ve seen it three times already. The sick part is that I know I will go a few more times. The thing that’s so refreshing about this movie is that it is not a typical chick flick (that’s right, men, keep reading)—it...
Final UT show of the quarter provides glitz, glam, and Nazis galore
By Devin Cain / December 2, 2003
“What good is sitting alone in your room?” she’ll ask you, and having just come from your room, six feet deep in some book and without a “proper” bath in the last four days, because you go to school here and it’s the time of year for studying, you won’t be able to make sense of these words. But this woman, this Fraulein Sally Bowles, will explain it for you coaxingly: “Come hear the music play, Life is a cabaret, old chum, come to the cabaret!” Ah, you’ll say, that’s right! I’m an old chum, a regular whippersnapper am I....
Small Time Cooks – Pinot Grigio Vegetables over Orzo
By Jon Walsh / December 2, 2003
The wind cut into me like a surgeon’s knife. Winter was coming, and I wasn’t happy to see it. Being a private eye means being outside all the time, and in the winter that means facing the cold. Walking the streets, I had my mind on a warm kitchen more than work. Downtown is full of cases for guys like me, but it’s also full of great restaurants. I called Maria from downtown to see what was cooking. It was orzo. I love the stuff. Orzo is small pasta, almost like a super-sized rice grain. It’s quick-cooking, and it goes...
Guitar guy and piano girl: cuter than a truckload of buttons
By Andrew Marchesseault / December 2, 2003
Schubas, the tiny club at the corner of Southport and Belmont, is a wonderfully intimate place to take in a live show. Its close quarters are especially beneficial when the people performing are unusually attractive—you can actually see their faces in some detail! Such was the case on Friday night, November 21, when piano chanteuse Rachael Yamagata double-billed with precocious Norwegian guitarist Sondre Lerche. The two solo artists played two shows, the first with Yamagata opening for Lerche in front of the under-21 set and then a later show for the drinking crowd with the billing reversed. It was fitting...
Sedaris’s plays fill your stocking with cheer, coal
By Luba Kontorovich / December 2, 2003
Jingle bells and Rudolph’s red nose may have done it for us back in the days of elementary school, but most people have lost much of their holiday cheer before puberty is through with them. David Sedaris’s The SantaLand Diaries is the perfect show for those jaded by Christmas and all its attendant rituals—the feigned gleefulness of salespeople in crowded stores, the endless repetition of the small cannon of carols, and the trips to have your picture taken sitting on a mall Santa’s lap. The Diaries is actually two monologues: the title piece and Season’s Greetings. The latter, performed by...
Voices sends news editor into the mosh pit of doom; Pulitzer to follow
By Andrew Moesel / November 25, 2003
A dark veil of anticipation hung over the thousands of fans that stirred restlessly within the general admission area at the Aragon Ballroom Tuesday night. After a lukewarm performance by Limp Bizkit, the crowd felt like a taut rubber band stretched to the breaking point, ready to snap at any moment. Then, without warning, the thundering pulse of a base chord ran through the floorboards like a San Andreas tremor and rattled my ankles almost painfully, the vibration reverberating up into my chest and making my heart quake. Standing roughly 40 feet from the stage, a mass of angst-filled humanity...
Mitchell and company: simplicity in improvisation
By Eric Benson / November 25, 2003
The Roscoe Mitchell Quartet crafted an evening of complex, ethereal music last Friday at HotHouse. It would be impossible to pigeonhole the group into a specific genre; certainly it is heavily indebted to the jazz tradition, yet it often departs from the tenets of that tradition. It’s not the jazz of neo-traditionalists like Wynton Marsalis or Stanley Crouch to be sure. The quartet’s music is creative and improvised; the genre into which it is catalogued is incidental. There was an aura of vast openness in the music on Friday night that facilitated collective improvisation. Listening was as important a contribution...
Quality food, questionable service: like the Med, but better … and Armenian
By Becky Klymkowsky / November 25, 2003
With a certain comforting inevitability, Saturday night arrived once again, with dining halls closed across campus in an attempt to force students out of their gustatory rut and into Chicago proper. It is a difficult task, especially as we race towards the frigid specter of another winter in the Windy City. Now that the days are growing colder, the temptation to stay safe and warm in the dorms is a mighty one indeed. There is something about having food delivered and curling up on the sofa with a good movie and a snuggle-buddy (in my case, my University of Chicago...
Running a fever, Karen O can’t tell it like it is
By Mara Stankiewicz / November 25, 2003
On Sunday night at the Metro, Karen O was back in Chicago and ready to rock. Or was she? Yes, she was draped in more ghastly attire than usual, with eyeballs and feathers strewn all over her red tank top. And she did have a significantly smaller beer gut than the last time the Yeah Yeah Yeahs came through the Windy City. But, alas, one thing prevented this New York trio from giving the kind of show they were born to put on: a 103° fever. Befitting a band whose 2003 debut is entitled Fever to Tell, Karen O’s fever...
UT’s production of Henry V: a visual and aural spectacle…with actors
By Alexander Rocha / November 21, 2003
It’s difficult to stage a play with extended battle sequences on a modest budget without looking like the Max Fischer Players. Accolades are due to director Scott Sherman and his technical staff for doing a superb job with this weekend’s run of Henry V (November 19-22, 8 p.m. in the Reynolds Club First Floor Theater). Jeff Roudabush’s excellent set design—an abstract, multi-tiered rock formation—is visually striking, and its versatility (now casual seating, now the entrance to a catacomb, now a castle wall) sets the tone for a production that has to do a great deal with limited resources. Alainna Lynch’s...
Small Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh / November 21, 2003
The coffee was about as stale as my bagel. I’d been on the road for days, trailing a guy who was trying to hide from my employers. He had visited just about every goon on the way out of Illinois, and I had visited just about every diner in southern Illinois while playing follow the leader. I took a break to call Maria. She was ready to cook again, which was good since I was coming back to the city. I thought my case was about to break for the south, so I called my employer and told them the...
Get a Life…with Erica Cerulo
By Erica Cerulo / November 21, 2003
Midterms were finally handed back. Oh goody. The professor (who just a mere two weeks ago said that she wished she didn’t have to give grades but the University “makes” her) decided that, heck, while she’s at it, she might as well grade hard. How reassuring to know that if you hadn’t split your infinitives you would have gotten a B+ instead of a B. You are sick of being graded. You are tired of letters being subjectively assigned to your papers. You can’t wait until the day when you can be the all-powerful prof with the obligatory red pen....
Consuming the firewater, discussing Firewater: a Pub post-mortem
By Nicholas Hudac / November 21, 2003
Out of all the advances in communication, perhaps none has ever had the impact of a completely full pint glass in the dimly lit corner of the local bar. Sure, the cell phone has made one easily available at all hours of the day. E-mail has made it possible to cheaply, quickly, and easily communicate with someone located half a globe away. But, at the end of the day, it’s a full glass of the local poison that finally loosens tongues and prods conversations into motion. And it is just at the beginning of such a prodding that I begin...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / November 21, 2003
*Friday* If you’re anything like me, you leave your extracurriculars around 5:30 am, at which point you and the crew try to come up with ways to kill the hour-and-a-half before Salonica opens. No? Hm. Here at the Maroon, that’s how we spend our Thursday-into-Fridays. Last week we stumbled upon the insanely cheerful, Pixar-on-acid morning kids show _The Save-ums!_ That exclamation point is in the name of the show, by the way. The Save-ums are a wacky crew—Noodle, Ka-Chung, Jazzi, Foo, Custard, and B.B. Jammies—thatlives under the ocean? I think? Cut me some slack; it was dawn. The absurdly cute...
Chicago Music Society brings the bluesy goodness of Califone to Ida
By Nicholas Buchholz / November 21, 2003
It is probably among the most under-recognized bands in Chicago and even in America, given its history, quality of work, and uncompromising inventiveness. Califone’s unique brand of blues-steeped, electro-American music is the perfect soundtrack to Chicago’s hard-working, industrial South Side and its rural midwestern hinterland. There are pulses of steel-string banjo and guitar, toy pianos, Number 2 pencils tapped hard against mandolin necks, and Tim Rutili’s unmistakably smooth, dry voice, which naturally cuts into the mix like fine grit sandpaper rubbing onto hard oak. Given such disparate instrumentation, Califone produces very beautiful and cohesive music that brings together raw, old-fashioned...
Straylight Run gets to the heart of the Bottom Lounge
By James Corcoran / November 21, 2003
On Wednesday night, November 10, I decided to skip a new episode of The O.C. and trek up to Belmont to see the first Chicago show featuring Straylight Run at The Bottom Lounge. The Long Island foursome, taking its name from William Gibson’s novel Necromancer, consists of former Taking Back Sunday members John Nolan (guitar, keyboard, vocals) and Shaun Cooper (bass). Joining them is former Breaking Pangaea drummer Will Noon and Nolan’s sister Michelle (keyboard, vocals) who, depending on which one of the myriad of rumors relating to the near breakup of Taking Back Sunday you choose to believe, may...
Shambroom’s photography: poignant if you get it
By Heather Gillers / November 18, 2003
In 1963, as the United States nuclear arsenal awaited a standoff with the USSR, Andorra, a tiny nation in the Pyrenees with a total population of 5,000, drew up its defense budget. The total expenditure: $4.90. Ever since, hippies and peaceniks have wanted to try this at home, with no luck. In the U.S., where 5,000 is the population of a town with a volunteer fire department, local politics and foreign policy occupy opposite ends of the democratic power spectrum. Paul Shambroom confronts this discrepancy in Evidence of Democracy, a photography exhibit that runs until December 5 at the Museum...
No twinkling in these Stars
By Yoshi Salaverry / November 18, 2003
I’m not in the habit of beginning reviews with references to reviews in other publications, but in this case, I must make an exception. The very reason that I took interest in this album is because of the acclaim it received from the British press (as well as the American indie media) last year. This praise now completely confounds me. I take issue first of all with the critical rhetoric surrounding Heart, which seems to take two different forms: a) this album is sappy and lacks innovation, but it’s a guilty pleasure and b) this album is sappy, but there’s...
Solo Steward sings the sorrow
By Evan Arnold / November 18, 2003
Jamie Steward of Xiu Xiu brilliantly combines histrionics and honesty for the live performance. As much performer as musician, his songs are stories replete with multiple voices, raw sexuality, remorse, and vulgarity. Following up the release of Fag Patrol, Steward is touring solo, playing either a shrill, slightly distorted guitar or what appears to be a harmonium. The band’s previous releases featured a four-member lineup. The songs were polished with gentle synthetic tones, jarring sampling, and were generally upbeat. While unique, the band fit nicely into the indie scene by being depressing yet danceable and original with obvious influences. Now,...
Mercer and the Shins come into their own on stage and on the indie scene
By Andrew Marchesseault / November 18, 2003
James Mercer is a slight man. What’s scary is that he’s the tallest member of his band, the Shins, and he only comes up to about my shoulder. Now, I am pretty tall (exactly 74 inches in stocking feet—I just had myself measured), but I guess I was expecting Mercer to have a more formidable, less unassuming presence when we met at the House of Blues this past Saturday. I mean, here he is, the frontman of one of the hottest indie rock bands around, about to play to a sold-out crowd at a venue that dwarfs the site of...
Dramatic CSO concert provideth neither good music nor good Shakespeare
By Anne Lovering Rounds / November 18, 2003
On Saturday, November 8, I arrived at Symphony Center for a magical mystery tour, knowing nothing more than that the concert I was about to see was called “An Ode to Shakespeare.” Since I had just taken the GRE subject test in English literature that morning and crammed the entire day previous, I figured I had enough background in Shakesperiana to understand—yea, even appreciate—whatever was about to take place. Opening the program at ten minutes to eight, I finally found out what was on the menu: a series of scenes and speeches from Shakespeare’s plays, some spoken, others in song...
Don’t take it from Warner Brothers: In Time is behind the times
By Andrew Marchesseault / November 18, 2003
It’s a little strange to think of the members of R.E.M. as old men. But, Father Time does not lie: they have been a band since 1980, for a full 23 years (if one counts the last five years without founding drummer Bill Berry). Michael Stipe is 43, Mike Mills is 44, and Peter Buck is a whopping 46. Granted, 23 years does not make a lifetime; it normally makes a recent college graduate, looking in vain for a job and subsequently thinking about grad school. But 23 years is an eternity in a musical life. Most bands are lucky...
Shambroom’s photography: poignant if you get it
By Heather Gillers / November 18, 2003
In 1963, as the United States nuclear arsenal awaited a standoff with the USSR, Andorra, a tiny nation in the Pyrenees with a total population of 5,000, drew up its defense budget. The total expenditure: $4.90. Ever since, hippies and peaceniks have wanted to try this at home, with no luck. In the U.S., where 5,000 is the population of a town with a volunteer fire department, local politics and foreign policy occupy opposite ends of the democratic power spectrum. Paul Shambroom confronts this discrepancy in Evidence of Democracy, a photography exhibit that runs until December 5 at the Museum...
Off-Off declares war on tame humor; Off-Off wins
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / November 14, 2003
Every Friday night I find myself with the same problem: what to do to fill the time between the end of dinner and the beginning of other late-night activities. Not much fits into that odd two- or three-hour window. It’s not really enough time to head downtown for wild carousing, but it’s also too long simply to hang around Uncle Joe’s looking sophisticated and nursing a frappé mocha (unless you are more hip than I am, which is highly likely). In any case, you see my dilemma. There is one bright star on the otherwise bleak horizon: University Theater’s Friday...
Stay Tuned…with Margaret Lyons
By Margaret Lyons / November 14, 2003
Friday I liked The Blair Witch Project when I saw it. Sure, I almost peed in my pants, and yes, maybe seeing it on my day off as a camp counselor wasn’t the best idea I ever had, but still. It was good. In between squeezing my eyes closed and praying that it would be over soon, one thought stood out in my mind: this movie needs more thumbs. Enter The Blair Thumb, a spoof short starring, you guessed it, our beloved opposable digits. Steve Oedekerk—screenwriter for Ace Ventura: When Nature Calls, Kung Pow, Jimmy Neutron (which is actually really...
Get a Life…with Erica Cerulo
By Erica Cerulo / November 14, 2003
Lynn was my first love. Now, I really, really want Diana, and think that Katie is utterly adorable. Plus, I could definitely use Liz some nights. Sigh. Hmma lil’ too reminiscent of that damn “Mambo No. 5” song that was burned into our brains like five years ago? Yeah, it is a lil’. 1154 Lill, that is. Ooooh! Good one. Super cheesy. No, I’m not talking about girls (my roommates Lynn and Diana are both relieved). I’m talking about purses. Every boy just turned the page. Big mistake. Huge. This could have been his savior. This could have been the...
Barney’s epic film series shows Doc viewers the nature of true art cinema
By Andrew Marchesseault / November 14, 2003
I’m in this great class on detective fiction. On Thursday, our discussion took a tangent toward the recent revival of the serial, especially in major motion pictures. Back in the day, you would wait for the next Sherlock Holmes story just like you wait for the next installment of The Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter, or The Matrix movies today. Hollywood banks on sequels for a quick buck, but it takes true artistic vision to imagine a cogent series of films that will build and borrow from one another. The Lord of the Rings is the best recent example...
UT play recounts Thoreau’s brush with the fuzz
By Luba Kontorovich / November 14, 2003
Henry David Thoreau is probably most widely known as the transcendentalist who wrote Walden. The Thoreau portrayed in Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee’s The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail has yet to write Walden, but his philosophy is already fairly well developed. Thrown in the Concord jail for refusing to pay his taxes, the Thoreau we are presented with (played by first-year Mark Conkel) is such a forward-thinking liberal that he would likely fit in well with today’s self-styled “progressives.” He is pro-environment, anti-capitalism, anti-war, and he is perpetually passionate. Virtually everyone he encounters is subject to his exhortations,...
Brandenburg Ensemble: it’s smooth sailing after the initial choppiness
By John Zhu / November 14, 2003
Thursday night at Symphony Hall, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra marked its season’s first of a series of performances of the Bach orchestral works by the Brandenburg Ensemble. Featuring violinist conductor Jaime Laredo and pianist Peter Serkin, both affiliated with the Curtis Institute, flautists Tara O’Connor and Barry Crawford, and a handful of mostly youthful players, it was a concert marked not by Karajanesque efficiency and professionalism but by the sheer joy of music making. One could imagine that an evening performance at the Bach household did not feel much different. To be sure, there were interpretive and technical mistakes. An...
MAB gives lively Mandel Hall crowd the Bens
By Andy Marchesseault / November 11, 2003
This past Saturday, two worlds collided at Mandel Hall. Geographically, at least. Australia’s own wunderkind Ben Lee joined forces with North Carolina native (and Australia resident) Ben Folds for a show that may have surpassed the usual Chicago Presents fare in terms of unchecked gusto and obscenities. The two friends and sometime collaborators, though natives of different lands, are of a similar musical vein. Lee, in his early 20s, crafts catchy pop tunes that combine big beats, inventive guitar, and clever lyrics. Ditto for the 37-year-old Folds, except subtract the guitar and add a piano. They’re also both smart alecks,...
Small-Time Cooks: almost risotto and dill carrots
By Jon Walsh / November 11, 2003
The days kept getting shorter, but work kept getting worse. Last week, these three professionals worked me over, and I was still hurting. One of them got a shot on my leg with some brass knuckles; it left a bruise the size of a dinner plate. I didn’t mind, though. I’m a private eye—stuff happens. At the tired end of a long day, I collapsed on the sofa like an old accordion. All I wanted to do was watch some good TV. As the night waned, the beer worked its way through me, dulling my frustration. I flipped to this...
Academy of Ancient Music proves that if it’s Baroque, you better fix it
By Nick Morrison / November 11, 2003
Although the year 1700 is, by the standards of most academic disciplines, recent history, it marks the beginning of most of the music that we can appreciate today. Obviously, there was music in the Renaissance and earlier. But only with Bach do we have a composer of artistic stature comparable to Homer, Shakespeare, Plato, Da Vinci, and the various other canonical figures with whom we are all familiar. It would be unfair to qualify baroque music as somehow so old that, like Beowulf, it is incomprehensible in its original language. Rather, to hear baroque music played on period instruments is...
More Ryan! New EP brings him back to his roots
By Mehan Jayasuria / November 11, 2003
Way back in late March, Ryan Adams was set to release the follow-up to 2001’s breakthrough hit Gold, tentatively titled Love is Hell. Weeks before release, Adams’s label, Lost Highway, pulled the record from release schedules, apparently deeming it “too depressing” and “not his best work.” While Adams fans cried foul on the part of the corporate monster, the man himself holed-up in the studio and banged out the excellent Rock N Roll, which was released last Tuesday. Love is Hell, on the other hand, was split into two EPs, the first of which was released alongside the new record...
To diehard Heartbreaker fans: forget the indie and make room for the rock
By Brad Heffern / November 7, 2003
Depending on how you look at it, Ryan Adams either got really lucky or really screwed. His sophomore release as a solo artist, Gold, came out on September 11, 2001 with the lead single “New York, New York.” Incidentally, he was posing in front of an American flag on the cover and the video was shot in front of the twin towers on September 7. Naturally, half a million in sales and a Grammy nomination followed, but whether it was because the album was one of the best of the year, or simply a tribute to Adams’s skill as an...
Belle & Sebastian: awkward first kiss leaves much to be desired
By Whet Moser / November 7, 2003
I think we all knew that the crisis of Fold Your Hands Child, You Walk Like a Peasant was coming. Belle & Sebastian was supposed to be more of a collective than a band, more of a phenomenon than a career. The miasma of Fold Your Hands had an air of uncomfortable confusion about it, like being at a party with a couple that’s on the verge of breaking up—lots of uneasy passages where this unit that seemed so familiar is spreading out among the attendees and hustling the unattached into corners. Is Isobel actually flirting with us? I mean...
Revolutions: some kind of sick joke? Discuss.
By Chris Meeske / November 7, 2003
Chris: This is possibly the most pointless review in the long, sad history of cinema commentary. Matrix: Revolutions is going to be seen by everyone in the universe, mark the conclusion of a new cultural touchstone, and make approximately $18 trillion. Unfortunately, it is also a horrible, horrible movie. I even enjoyed the widely disparaged Reloaded, mostly for the superbly conceived and executed action scenes, but Revolutions didn’t even reach the level of entertaining eye-candy. In short, the Wachowskis took away all the fun and coolness that made the first movie so great. Garth: Grow up. C: See, that’s the...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / November 7, 2003
Friday Nerds everywhere have been creaming their jeans in excitement for the new animated “micro series” Star Wars: Clone Wars, which premieres tonight. These five-minute episodes, which air every weeknight through November 20, fit between the insanely boring Episode II: Attack of the Clones and the yet-to-suck untitled Episode III. The usual characters—Obi-Wan, Anakin, Padme, Yoda, Samuel L. Jackson—get all freaky with their cartoon selves as the Rebellion continues to battle the Empire. Watch this you probably won’t. Get all your Star Wars action this weekend with Episode II on HBO Saturday at noon, or kick it ’77-style with Star...
Get A Life
By Erica Cerulo / November 7, 2003
I have, surprisingly, very fond memories of the Go-Go’s song “Vacation” from a weekend getaway my first year, and yesterday, let me tell ya, yesterday I “had to get away.” This whole school thing sometimes makes real escapes pretty infeasible (damn school), but you have to do what you can. After a hellish week of midterms, my friend and I collapsed in my car and journeyed up Lake Shore Drive. Escaping from the HP is always refreshing, and what’s more, we were going to France. Yeah, I’m definitely pushing it now. We were really just having dinner, but I’m trying...
Polpo follow-up is symphonic bliss
By Yoshi Salaverry / November 7, 2003
For a genre that was originally conceived by Brian Eno as a sort of aural counterpoint to furniture, ambient music has ironically blossomed into an immersive form, with greater capacity to engage the listener than all manners of in-your-face rock or electronic bands. The catch, of course, is its dependence upon an attentive listener, a solitary diver willing to explore its sonic depths. For these very reasons, Sandro Perri’s second wide-release album, recorded under the name Polmo Polpo, can pass by with nary an impression, other than one of enveloping warmth. I won’t preach about how you really have to...
University Theater production adds new dimension to the meaning of fun
By Cady Susswein / November 7, 2003
Fun by James Bosley and directed by Theadora Tolkin is University Theater’s first play of the fall quarter. It’s an intense melodrama about two troubled teenagers who develop an instant bond after meeting randomly at a bus stop. Hillary (Julia Bell) was raped by her father when she was an overdeveloped child, and Bonnie (Alexandra Ensign) is a pathological liar who claims to have been raped in her youth. Repressed loneliness unites them, but the girls could not be more different. Hillary distances herself from people, while Bonnie tries to make as many acquaintances as possible. The two girls agree...
Amanda Geppert talks film festivals, parties on Kimbark, and Guinness
By Matt Zakosek / November 7, 2003
Judging from our first phone conversation, I knew Amanda Geppert (A.B. ’95) was going to be cool. The reason? When we were discussing Goldfish Memory, my current favorite from the 22nd annual Reeling Chicago Lesbian and Gay International Film Festival, she explained why she didn’t like the blurb describing the movie in the program: “This stylish and witty import from Ireland is as refreshing as a pint of Guinness.” Amanda exclaimed, “But Guinness isn’t refreshing! Guinness is like a meal!” She couldn’t get them to change that, which is surprising, because Amanda is a powerful force behind this grassroots festival....
Shortcut: The Strokes
By Christian Kraus / November 4, 2003
So yeah. The Strokes are back, and now that they’ve saved rock’n’roll once already, they can go on to new tasks. Challenged with the choice between becoming mature and continuing to work on their immaturity, they have chosen to refine the blasé fuck you attitude that commanded Is This It. (Recall its opening: “Can’t you see I’m trying, I don’t even like it/I just lie to get to your apartment.”) In so doing, they have provided us now with nothing less than an ethics of contemporary dating—a user’s guide, as it were, for how to deal with women who are...
Small-time Cooks: Lentil pasta and rosemary potatoes
By Jon Walsh / November 4, 2003
Rain. Everything was gray as I sat in a cold Cadillac, drinking stale coffee and eating an even staler donut. I had to make myself scarce when this goon I was trying to avoid showed up. He plays my spine like a piano, and I’m not a big fan of his music. After I got away from the pianist, I made my way to Maria’s for some cooking. I was thinking of giving up the detective gig for a full time chef’s job, but I still needed to pay the bills. Besides, I figured I could work for Maria if...
Chicago Presents another winner: three composers bring the festivities
By Deirdre Kelly / November 4, 2003
Many thanks go to Chicago Presents for scheduling the opening concert of the Contemporary Chamber Players Series on a Friday night. Far too frequently, concerts for new music are relegated to “off” times, such as Sunday afternoons. The difference between Sunday and Friday is the difference between the day after Christmas and Christmas Eve—the latter is full of reflection and recovery, the former is full of expectation and excitement. And so Friday night, Mandel Hall not only saw a larger and more diverse audience than usual for a Contemporary Chamber Players concert, but also enjoyed the electric atmosphere generated by...
The Shins invert the ’60s again on new album
By Andy Marchesseault / November 4, 2003
When the Shins released their debut album, Oh, Inverted World, in June of 2001, they appeared to have emerged from some bizarro Summer of Love haze. They came out of nowhere, or perhaps, as their album title would imply, they came from some alternate dimension in which the late ’60s had been superimposed upon the early years of the twenty-first century. But the truth was more delicious than this fiction, because the Shins were, in fact, from Albuquerque. Looking back, who would have thought that this New Mexican quartet would essentially beat Manhattan’s Strokes to the punch, starting all this...
Georgia band upstages Appleseed Cast’s soundscape tale by the fireside
By Mehan Jayasuria / November 4, 2003
On Friday night, October 17, the buzzword at the Fireside Bowl was “soundscape.” In case you’re not familiar with the term, it revolves around the idea of creating a sonic space using a set of constraints —often achieved through repetition—and then moving around and exploring that space. As you might imagine, the creation of such “soundscapes” often lends itself to the overuse of digital delay and multi-layered guitars to mimic a dream-like state (this may be the legacy of Kevin Shields). However, some bands manage to break free of this type of cliché and create something truly original. As of...
Shortcut: Elliott Smith
By Brad Heffern / November 4, 2003
Just last month, Seattle-based Suicide Squeeze records released what would become the last release in Elliott Smith’s lifetime. A teaser for the upcoming From a Basement on the Hill (which will most likely see release in 2004 on a yet-to-be-decided indie label), the limited-edition record features “Pretty (Ugly Before)” on the a-side and “A Distorted Reality is Now a Necessity to be Free” on the b-side. As it was a limited pressing of 5,000, copies of this record have been going for as much as $50 on eBay since his death last week. Side A: It would be easy to...
Homosexual filmmakers deal with AIDS, female musicians, and relationships
By Matt Zakosek / November 4, 2003
Documentaries are not for everyone. It’s a rare few that garner critical acclaim, like Capturing the Friedmans, and even fewer that captivate the public’s imagination, like Hoop Dreams. But I’ve never described a documentary to a friend before and been stopped with the incredulous question, “Are you joking?” Such is the case with The Gift, a terrifying real-life drama about “bug chasers” and “gift givers” that is one of the featured films in Reeling 2003—the Chicago Lesbian and Gay International Film Festival. To use the film’s own terms, bug chasers are those who deliberately become infected with HIV, and gift...
Greektown gem pleases the palate
By Rebecca Klymkowsky / November 4, 2003
With its celebrated Taste of Chicago food festival in the summer, and an enormous amount of restaurants, Chicago is arguably one of the cuisine capitals of the country, if not the world. Whether you hunger for Italian pasta, Chicago’s own deep-dish pizza, or slightly more eclectic entrees such as kabanosy, a type of Polish sausage, you’ll find it in Chicago. Of course, the sheer plethora of choices is enough to have you cowering in your dorm room Saturday night or settling for the ease of a late-night Subway run when the dining halls are closed. If you feel like you’re...
Orly’s cuisine is worth the walk
By Andrew Marchesseault / November 4, 2003
Saturday night dining options for most students often consist of the restaurants around the main campus: the Med, Florian, and Noodles Etc. Some are brave enough to venture past Lake Park to patronize one of the wonderful Thai eateries on 55th Street. However, if one walks just a bit farther, you’ll encounter Orly’s on the corner of 55th Street and Hyde Park. For those who don’t know Orly’s, it’s the former Jalapeños—different name, yet much of the same Mexican cuisine with some new additions to the menu. A while ago, several members of the Maroon editorial staff decided to check...
A journey to the Bottle complete with a bearded man and a loud bang
By Nicholas Hudac / November 4, 2003
We were already late and confused when the evening began, as we hurtled down 90-94 in a comfortably battered Grand Marquis and pondering the great mysteries of modern urban life. As the streetlights stumbled and dropped behind, my good friend the driver and I talked shop, discussing music with a thrust, parry, and riposte. Conversation soon turned towards the concert we were commuting north and west to see—an evening of underground hip-hop and intelligent dance music, to paraphrase my friend. He parked the car, and we headed down Western towards the sallow beacon of a Heilman’s Old Style light barely...
Stay Tuned
By Margaret Lyons / October 31, 2003
Friday There’s a reason that nothing good is on on Fridays: that’s the TV’s way of telling you to go out. Sure, once in a while a good show gets dumped into the barren wasteland of Friday night nonsense (Homicide: Life on the Street back in the day), but in general, you’re looking at a whole lot of nothing (Life With Bonnie, Dateline NBC). Tonight is something of an exception, but considering it’s Halloween, you should probably still get your party on. In honor of said holiday, several channels are busting out their monster fare. FX is pregaming it old...
Wilson play continues the endless search for the perfect cup of coffee
By Luba Kontorovich / October 31, 2003
Junkies, hustlers, and whores hang around an all-night New York City diner, screaming for coffee and at each other. They are here every night, waiting. Some wait to score, others to pimp, and all wait for a cup of coffee. But they also hope that if they just hang out long enough, familiarity will breed friendship, and they will no longer be alone in the middle of a crowd. Rake, an omniscient junkie hustler played brilliantly by Danny Belrose, says of whores who hang onto their johns despite poor treatment, “They want someone around.” This is the world Lanford Wilson...
Shortcuts: The Joggers
By Andy Marchesseault / October 31, 2003
Upon listening to the first track of The Joggers’ debut album, one might be inclined to group them with fellow Northwest pop tunesmiths Death Cab for Cutie and the late, great Elliott Smith. “Loosen Up” begins with a fade-in to deft guitar picking, which leads into a delicate melody carried by three-part harmony andsleigh bells? It’s quite lovely, actually. However, the true precedent-setter for the rest of the album is the second track; “Hot Autism” sounds like a completely different band. In the song, Murphy Kasiewicz and Ben Whitesides’s guitars launch into a sonic dogfight, dipping and darting past one...
Wilson play continues the endless search for the perfect cup of coffee
By Luba Kontorovich / October 31, 2003
Junkies, hustlers, and whores hang around an all-night New York City diner, screaming for coffee and at each other. They are here every night, waiting. Some wait to score, others to pimp, and all wait for a cup of coffee. But they also hope that if they just hang out long enough, familiarity will breed friendship, and they will no longer be alone in the middle of a crowd. Rake, an omniscient junkie hustler played brilliantly by Danny Belrose, says of whores who hang onto their johns despite poor treatment, “They want someone around.” This is the world Lanford Wilson...
Shortcuts: The Joggers
By Andy Marchesseault / October 31, 2003
Upon listening to the first track of The Joggers’ debut album, one might be inclined to group them with fellow Northwest pop tunesmiths Death Cab for Cutie and the late, great Elliott Smith. “Loosen Up” begins with a fade-in to deft guitar picking, which leads into a delicate melody carried by three-part harmony andsleigh bells? It’s quite lovely, actually. However, the true precedent-setter for the rest of the album is the second track; “Hot Autism” sounds like a completely different band. In the song, Murphy Kasiewicz and Ben Whitesides’s guitars launch into a sonic dogfight, dipping and darting past one...
Shortcuts: Paul Oakenfold
By Tim Michaels / October 31, 2003
If pop/rap artist Eminem claims that “nobody listens to techno,” he must not have heard of Paul Oakenfold. The British DJ is arguably the most renowned trance DJ since electronic music hit mainstream audiences. His newest release, Great Wall, acts almost as a response to such popularity, providing the listener with a two-CD set that also comes with an interactive component. Part of what contributed to Oakenfold’s global fame were his collaborations with well known artists such as U2 and Madonna. Realizing the effectiveness of this method, Oakenfold continues this trend, working with Björk, Madonna, Nugen, and Ian Brown on...
Small Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh / October 28, 2003
I was out on a job, making friends with some new alley cats. I knew they weren’t so happy to see me, but they didn’t have to say as much. My ribs knew I wasn’t happy to see them either. After getting away from my new pals, I got out of the cold and into a quiet diner for a warm bowl of soup. My fingers felt like broken icicles. Cold weather and I get along about as well as mustard and jellybeans. Winter food is great, but most of it is slow-cooking. Maria and I weren’t about to go...
Music crosses gender boundaries in new opera
By Nicholas Baer / October 28, 2003
“The sound of a human voice—the simplest thing to find but the hardest to hold onto.” So sings a lonely, forest-dwelling woman in the first of two one-act operas that comprise the new collaboration between composer Philip Glass and librettist David Henry Hwang. One of only four characters in this minimalist opera (collectively titled The Sound of a Voice and playing until November 2 at the Court Theatre), the woman introduces its central theme: the inability of men and women to form intimate relationships in a society with strict gender roles and moral codes. The first short opera, itself titled...
Director Cavina adds a dash of Italian spice to Mandel Hall series
By Anne Lovering Rounds / October 28, 2003
These days, classical musicians have to sell their image before they can play their music. Not only does Anne Sophie-Mutter have to play gorgeous; she has to look gorgeous, too. Concerts have to have gimmicks, either lame verbal plays like “Mostly Mozart” or melodramatic, essay-style titles like “Barenboim: The Final Recital” (not coming up any time soon). Look at me: I love Yevgeny Kissin’s Bach-Busoni, but I also love his virtuosic flamboyance (read: hair). It’s hard times for ordinary-looking folks who just happen to create unbelievable art. It’s especially hard for musicians performing Renaissance music. Unless you’re already a brand...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / October 28, 2003
When Brody Dalle screams, you know she means business. Her voice is perfectly pitched over the punk riffs that run rampant through the new Distillers album, Coral Fang. She projects a rawness that rivals Courtney Love’s, and her screeches put Babes in Toyland’s Kat Bjelland’s to shame. But beneath this brawn is the beauty that Brody not only sings but also writes the music and lyrics for the entire album (which she also did for 2002’s Sing Sing Death House). From the low-lying refrain of “I want to bury you” in “Dismantle Me,” to the hardcore madness packed in the...
Strokes: hot and bothered, but can’t seal the deal
By Mara Stankiewicz / October 23, 2003
The Strokes could build a successful musical career off of their hype alone. Before their first album, Is This It, was even released, rock critics everywhere referred to them as the new Rolling Stones. Then, immediately after the album hit the stores, everyone proclaimed them “the saviors of rock ‘n’ roll.” And now that their new album, Room On Fire, is due out in less than a week, their fans (and entertainment industry higher-ups) can’t wait to get their hands on it. How is it that these random boys from New York with messy hair have achieved so much in...
Get a life with Erica Cerulo
By Erica Cerulo / October 23, 2003
One of my friends claims to have “Joy Yee’s pants” that he has to wear every time we go to this Chinatown hot spot because he just gets so excited that he makes a mess of himself. Take this as you will, but he meant it in the dirtiest possible sense. Now that I’ve worked up your appetite and really gotten your taste buds going My apologies. My friend is unquestionably a strange kid, but he’s not that excitable. It takes either pretty good porn or really good bubble tea. The bubble tea at Joy Yee’s is nothing like the...
Taylor uses vocal cameos to take tech-house in new directions
By Yoshi Salaverry / October 23, 2003
Dub Taylor’s sound is essentially formulaic, but no worse for the fact. After all, Tri Repetae++-era Autechre was absolutely formulaic, but that did nothing to detract from their appeal. Their tried and true method of beginning a song with a basic percussive structure, then gradually adding more and more melodic embellishments, gave a sense of narrative that became their trademark. What I mean in Dub Taylor’s case is this: I can skip to any track on his new album, Experience, and expect to find crisp tech-house beats, discreet electronic squiggles of sound, and perhaps a minimal bass line. These elements...
Stay Tuned with Margaret Lyons
By Margaret Lyons / October 23, 2003
Friday Nip/Tuck sizzled all summer long, filling my evenings with breasts, drugs, cars, divorce, and self-circumcision. Well, just the nights I couldn’t fill myself. This Miami-set series is incredibly inconsistent; some episodes rock you with drama, love, guilt, and plastic surgery, and other episodes just sort of poke your shoulder for an hour, making you wonder why you ever bothered with these assholes. Tonight’s episode seems promising. Drug lords continue to threaten the McNamara/Troy practice, and Sean has to keep up with the heroin-in-breast-implant action. Crazy lady Gina is worried about Christian’s parenting skizill—uh, he’s a drug-abusing, womanizing, sex addict,...
Manson converts one more poor soul at the Aragon
By Mara Stankiewicz / October 20, 2003
On Marilyn Manson’s latest release, The Golden Age of Grotesque, he sings, “But now I’m not an artist/I’m a fucking work of art.” Nobody can describe Manson quite like he can and has done on almost every CD and song he has released. He even elaborates on his reputation in Michael Moore’s Bowling for Columbine. Manson’s self-awareness, combined with the abnormality of his image and his culture of “anti,” is blunt and barefaced. When I showed up at the Aragon Ballroom on Friday night to see the Mobscene (Manson’s name for his assembled fans), I was eager but completely unsure...
CSO, Barenboim officially kick off the season with a bang, Lang Lang
By Christian Kraus / October 20, 2003
Except in the movies, “glamour” and “Chicago” don’t seem to be two words that go together easily. A city so rich in labor history, with such important contributions to the history of blues and jazz (and crime), Chicago can come across as lacking when it comes to eruptions of old European grandezza, or even of Old-Boy east-coast aristocratism. Not so this past Saturday at this year’s Chicago Symphony Orchestra Opening Night Gala Concert. Although the season-opening event occurred about a month after the season had begun, it succeeded in bringing together Chicago’s most notorious glamour-mongers under the auspices of Morgan...
Small Time Cooks: Quesadillas
By Jon Walsh / October 20, 2003
This guy lumbered into my office—the biggest case I’d seen in weeks. He was about 6 foot 8. Seems this guy thought his business associate was skimming a little off the top. He wanted me to tail him for a few days, see what turned up—go where he goes. Playing follow-the-leader took me to Pilsen for lunch one afternoon. Pilsen has the best homemade Mexican food this side of the Red River, and it made me think of my younger days in Texas. Tex-Mex was always great food, and it was so easy to make. Hyde Park Produce had almost...
Threesome fuses influences in live stunner
By Thomas Hauner / October 20, 2003
The talented members of Soulive preserved their reputation as outstanding live performers Friday night at the House of Blues. The group—Neil Evans on bass keyboard and Hammond b-3, Alan Evans on the drums, and Eric Krasno on guitar—was joined on stage by alto saxophonist Sam Kininger, who is featured on Soulive’s 2002 release, Next. Soulive represents a mixture of musical backgrounds. Krasno graces many of the tunes with sweet jazz licks and creates a rhythmic platform with chords and wah-wah effects. Neil Evans secures bass lines with his left hand and performs solos with his right on the b-3, while...
Van Dyk looks deeper on new disc
By Peter Robinett / October 20, 2003
Paul van Dyk, while not well known in America, is one of the best-known DJs in Europe. Reflections is his most recent album. He is known for solid, eminently danceable albums, and this one doesn’t disappoint. The album must have been put together in a relatively short period of time due to van Dyk having released two other albums this year, yet all the songs have the same level of polish that one expects from Paul van Dyk. The tracks on this album vary in style and tempo, more so than in past efforts. For hardcore fans, this change may...
Coens commit acts of Cruelty against audience
By Joseph N. Liss / October 16, 2003
In every art form, self-consciousness on the part of the maker(s) can either temper the product into an elegant contraption or, suck all the life out of it, leaving it a degraded, cynical bundle of simulacra. The Coen brothers, undeniably among the most inventive and distinctive American auteurs, have always walked the thin line between wild extravagance and smart-alecky decadence. They triumph when they give themselves over to sheer zaniness (Raising Arizona, The Hudsucker Proxy) or when they open their hearts to a poignant, tragic sense of desperation (Barton Fink, Fargo, parts of Miller’s Crossing and The Man Who Wasn’t...
On new album, Andre 3000 and Big Boi get sexy and crunktastic, respectively
By Andy Marchesseault / October 16, 2003
OutKast’s Antwan “Big Boi” Patton and Andre “3000” Benjamin are often thought of as hip-hop’s odd couple: two brilliantly talented but fundamentally different men who create some of the most innovative and exciting music of this era. Like any pair with divergent interests, Dre and Big Boi are not always on the same page, but that is what gives their music the layers of inventiveness and complexity that set it apart from the crowd. Over nine years and four studio albums, the group has only improved as it has embraced and celebrated its differences. But their fifth album may be...
Northwest’s finest demonstrate that second time is a charm
By Mehan Jayasuria / October 16, 2003
“Comfort music”—what does this phrase mean to you? Indulge me, for a minute, while I tell a little story. During my first year at this school, I had this friend from San Francisco who was so scene that she had seen Fugazi play basement shows in D.C. One day, she happened to stop by my room and drop off a pile of CDs that she thought I needed to hear. There was a European import of Björk’s jazz record. There was De Stijl from the then little-known White Stripes. And then there was this record called Something About Airplanes by...
Stay Tuned with Margaret Lyons
By Margaret Lyons / October 16, 2003
Friday Now’s your chance to catch up on all the episodes of Making the Band II you missed when you had a job. MTV, rather than coming up with new or creative material, is rehashing that same old shit for five hours, starting at 5 p.m. Watch P. Diddy get huffy when the six members of Da Band (uh-oh, looks like I ruined the drama for the episode where they have to name themselves) act like total babies, beat the shit out of each other, complain about everything, show up late, and sing/rap extremely crappy songs. MTV, 5 p.m. Saturday...
CSO’s farm team proves it can hack it in the major leagues
By Peter Kupfer / October 16, 2003
The Civic Orchestra opened its 2003 season on Monday evening at Symphony Center with Joseph Haydn’s Symphony No. 92 (Oxford) and Dmitri Shostakovich’s Symphony No. 1. These two works represent two fundamentally different musical periods and personae, yet complement each other nicely as compact essays in symphonic writing. Under Resident Conductor Cliff Colnot, the Civic Orchestra demonstrated why, despite having over 50 new members since last season and having met for the first time a little less than one month ago, it is one of the preeminent pre-professional orchestras in the world. As the training orchestra for the Chicago Symphony,...
Get a Life! with Erica Cerulo
By Erica Cerulo / October 16, 2003
I’m a sucker for themes. My roommates and I spend an embarrassing amount of time thinking up new party ideas for our apartment, which we affectionately refer to as the “Barbie Dream House.” Needless to say, when I happened upon the restaurant Kitsch’n (home of all things kitschy), I was psyched. Who doesn’t get excited about being given Magic Eight Balls and Etch-A-Sketches to keep you occupied while you wait for your food? I mean, honestly. The décor is loyal to the restaurant’s name, from Colt 45 signs to Mr. Potato Heads. Pabst Blue Ribbon and throwback jerseys are all...
Emerson and Pacifica throw rollicking birthday bash for Mandel Hall
By Christian Kraus / October 13, 2003
It was a rather glorious night. Last Friday night, an excited audience did not only celebrate “100 years of music-making at Mandel Hall” (a worthy cause rather difficult to comprehend fully; few audience members, it can safely be said, were around on December 21, 1903 to witness a performance of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra). No, Mandel Hall also saw, in the midst of the current baseball mania, an eruption of local U of C enthusiasm at a chamber music concert, of all events. What happened? No more, no less than this: In yet another example of her oft-praised planning skills,...
Niblett’s follow-up falls flat
By Yoshi Salaverry / October 13, 2003
When an artist has a very minimal style, she can take albums following her first release in only a few directions. She can expand upon her sound, adding extra instrumentation, as Mates of State has done with its most recent album, or she can make her “sound” more or less accessible. And then there is the rare case of the minimal artist who opts to further reduce her sonic palette, perhaps attempting an even purer distillation of her craft. This, at least, seems to be Scout Niblett’s approach. If somebody had told me her second album would subtract, rather than...
Amid blood-letting, AFI encourages kids to sing the sorrow at Aragon
By Stephanie Ye / October 13, 2003
As I left for the Aragon Ballroom on Sunday afternoon, October 5, I was in one of those depressed, angsty sort of moods—angry at the world, frustrated with myself. It turned out to be the perfect mood for an AFI concert. I arrived at the venue half an hour before the doors opened, and was amazed at the line from the entrance, which contained a multitude of preteen girls, lots of fishnets, an inordinate number of Hot Topic black parachute pants, and even more parental figures. Needless to say, I was somewhat skeptical about the quality of the show I...
Abandoning pop for rock, Death Cab finds the heartache in separation
By Brad Heffern / October 13, 2003
If you haven’t heard of Death Cab for Cutie, you’ve been missing out. Simply put, it has been one of the best and most consistent bands on the indie scene in the last five years. It is also widely considered to be the jewel of the West Coast indie pop scene (see: Mates of State and Dismemberment Plan from the Midwest and East Coast, respectively). Additionally, Ben Gibbard’s side project with electronic wizard Jimmy Tamborello (of Dntel fame), The Postal Service, put out one of the best albums of 2003, its debut Give Up. Death Cab’s Transatlanticism, its first album...
Small Time Cooks: Cappellini Pomodoro
By Jon Walsh / October 13, 2003
It was a perfect day; the kind of weather baseball was made for. I had finished a rough week that had left my body aching. Running around was tough on my feet, but a surly gorilla I met in the wrong alley was even tougher on my ribs. Luckily I was cooking with Maria that night. She was my one case that didn’t get on my case. Nothing soothed my nerves like my old friend Jack. Unfortunately, the last of my good friend Mr. Daniels and I had parted ways the night before, so I’d have to make do with...
Hallelujah! Polyphonic Spree leads Metro revival
By Andy Marchesseault / October 13, 2003
The Polyphonic Spree’s debut album, The Beginning Stages Of is a pretty good pop record. It dabbles in a familiar palette, drawing from the sunny melodies and sing-along choruses of the Beach Boys and the last two Flaming Lips albums. The record is neither original, nor revolutionary; it is merely steadfastly solid. However, the Polyphonic Spree in concert is another matter altogether. In this forum, the band is akin to nothing that you have ever seen. I suppose I failed to mention that the Dallas-based Spree has 23 members, including a French horn player and a theremin player, and that...
Marad shakes it up with a twist of the South Side
By Mad Luque / October 9, 2003
Deep Rooted is a fitting title for the highly anticipated solo debut from local drummer and MC Iomos Marad. Released last month by All Natural Productions, the album, both musically and lyrically, asserts this poet’s pride in his Chicago roots. The limbs of those roots extend near and far, with an emphasis on the near. They begin on the South Side—where Iomos was raised on the jazz of his parents’ generation, including that of his own mother, who was a drummer—and wind underground through the city to downtown El stops, where Chicagoans often find Iomos either tapping on his drum...
Erica gives you a life: the first installment
By Erica Cerulo / October 9, 2003
Where fun comes to die—now that’s an attractive reputation. It’s definitely something worth bragging about or, better yet, screening on t-shirts. The Chicago Tribune recently did a feature on college life in the city, and while Northwestern kids will travel from Evanston to Wrigleyville in search of a good time, U of C students barely make it to Jimmy’s. I, for one, would like to shake this reputation. Turn it into nothing but a nasty rumor. A liberal education means being well-rounded; studying constantly does not equal well-rounded. Honey, you need to get out more. Luckily, the city of Chicago...
Wishing Woody Allen’s “Anything Else” were something else
By Natan Dotan / October 9, 2003
Woody Allen has directed 36 films in about as many years. Among those, he’s had many hits and a few misses. These misses, though, seem to be appearing more and more often. Is he losing his touch? I sure hope not. I also “sure hoped not” after walking out of 2001’s Curse of the Jade Scorpion, and again after last year’s Hollywood Ending. This year’s offering, Anything Else, is far from one of Allen’s best; this time, though, I was only slightly disappointed walking out of the theater. I felt the same kind of disappointment a lotto player might feel...
Tchaikovsky and Lalo: still kicking after all these years
By Peter Kupfer / October 9, 2003
Edouard Lalo and Pyotr Il’yich Tchaikovsky are two composers one might not immediately associate with each other. They hailed from different countries, flourished in different genres, and represented different schools of music. Yet the music of these two composers has much in common—a connection that rests on the notion of national musical identity, or lack thereof. The works performed by the Chicago Symphony this past Tuesday evening at Symphony Center, Lalo’s Symphonie Espagnole, with Maxim Vengerov as violin soloist, and Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 4, perhaps best exemplify the similarities between Lalo and Tchaikovsky. Lalo (1823-1892), French by birth and trained...
Tarantino gets everyone kung fu fighting
By Chris Meeske / October 9, 2003
Allow me to make the case that the kung fu movie is the epitome of all human entertainment. The focus of any good kung fu movie—whether it features the old-school goofiness of Jackie Chan or the sleek and polished Keanu Reeves—is on the grace and power of athletic achievement through martial arts. The sheer poetry that can be achieved by pushing the human body to its limits has been carried through the generations from the original Olympics to the Superbowl, and in cinema, from Hong Kong to Hollywood. The medium of film allows this visceral and primal attraction to be...
Sleepless in Tokyo: Bill and Scarlett, alone together
By Nicholas Baer / October 6, 2003
The key word in the title of Sofia Coppola’s quietly perceptive and subtly comedic new film Lost in Translation is the first one. Bob and Charlotte, two American characters who form a unique bond while in Tokyo, begin the film “lost” in both a physical and spiritual sense. At its heart, Coppola’s film beautifully portrays how these two unlikely characters form an intimate connection based on their shared dislocation. Bob Harris (the pitch-perfect Bill Murray) is an unhappily married B-list actor, who is in Tokyo filming a whiskey advertising campaign. Charlotte (the expressive young actress Scarlett Johansson) is a recent...
Brand New gives the teenage girls tremors; Dashboard goes unnoticed
By James Corcoran / October 6, 2003
Friday night at the Aragon Ballroom featured one of the best lineups to hit a Chicago venue this year. The emo punk band Piebald opened for three relatively large acts: Brand New, MxPx and Dashboard Confessional. As evidenced by his appearance on the cover of almost every major music magazine, Dashboard frontman Chris Carrabba has been crowned the king of emo. If this is true, then Jesse Lacey is the crown prince. Lacey is the guitarist and lead vocalist for Brand New, a quartet from Long Island featuring Vin Accardi (guitar, backup vocals), Garrett Tierney (bass), and Brian Lane (drums)....
Dennis and Sharon to Dorff: Won’t you be my neighbor?
By Matt Zakosek / October 6, 2003
Snakes! If I had to summarize Cold Creek Manor in just one word, that word would be “snakes.” Not “good,” not “lousy,” justsnakes. Luckily, I have 800 words, so I can tell you that while this is a pretty generic action-thriller, there is one terrifying sequence that is worth the cost of admission alone. Not to give too much away, but it involves snakes—a lot of them—hidden in the house, popping out from places you wouldn’t necessarily expect, even in a suspense movie. Do I need to mention that I yelped so loudly the couple a few rows behind me...
Don’t worry if you can’t say it; just sit, watch, listen
By Jeremy Rosenberg / October 6, 2003
Koyaanisqatsi and its sequels are of a unique form of art. Combining poetic cinematography and moving music, these films immerse the viewer in a world of visual and auditory sensation. This is not, however, an art of pure entertainment, for the films are also full of commentary on modern life and the balance, or possibly lack thereof, between nature and technology. Director Godfrey Reggio and composer Philip Glass collaborated between 1975 and 1982 to create the 87-minute Koyaanisqatsi, which contains no dialogue and no narration. The title is a Hopi Indian word meaning “life out of balance,” and the movie...
Undead, lycanthropes great for laughs, leather
By Peter Robinett / October 6, 2003
If you want to see a good movie with Kate Beckinsale, this is not it. Of course, I doubt a movie about an eternal war between vampires and werewolves is going to be a mass-market success. With a no-name cast and a first time director whose only previous movie credits seem to be as assistant props for Independence Day and Stargate, it comes as no surprise that this genre film is not a masterpiece of the silver screen. Would you expect a movie where all the vampires wear revealing formal wear or various leather outfits and the werewolves, in human...
From Tenacious D to schoolhouse rock: Jack Black shines in new film
By Andrew Marchesseault / October 3, 2003
Give Jack Black the Oscar. ThereI said it. And I’m only half-kidding. I’ve seen no other movie this year that has been so completely dominated by the presence of one actor, and has, in turn, transformed a devilishly funny sideshow into the next breakout comedy star. Jack Black owns School of Rock, seemingly born for the role of Dewey Finn, the wanna-be guitar god so hopelessly devoted to the rawk that he would mold a bunch of elementary schoolers into a band of Goliath-topplers. So, at the very least, hand Black the award for Most Valuable Actor: all that grunt...
Composer Glass reflects on U of C, opera, film
By Deirdre Kelly / October 3, 2003
Philip Glass boasts an impressive resume. Considered by many to be the founder of minimalism (a term often inappropriately applied to his music), Glass composed the official music for the 1984 Olympics, has had works premiered by the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra and Kronos Quartet, and most recently, was lauded for his film score to The Hours. Ravi Shankar, Allen Ginsberg, and David Bowie are just a few of the luminaries with whom Glass has worked. But what really impresses people when they read Glass’s biography? “Graduate of the University of Chicago, 1956″—at the age of 19. Though even Glass’s official...
Disappointing but nuanced performance marks CSO’s return home
By Nicholas Betson / October 3, 2003
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra held their unofficial opening concerts last weekend, having just returned from a successful and critically-praised residence at the Lucerne Music Festival. Their homecoming last Thursday coincided with the untimely death of Edward Said, long-time friend and “soul mate” of director Daniel Barenboim. The performance that evening was apparently a rather impassioned one, according to a Chicago Tribune review. Unfortunately, Thursday’s concert may have been a particularly cathartic event, as Saturday’s performance did not live up to the same billing. The program consisted of two works written less than 20 years apart and with strong musical ties...
Two writers, the Riv, cryptic lyrics, and the tour that will never end
By Mara Stankiewicz / October 3, 2003
Yoshi: Every year in January, Voices writers and editors convene to name the top albums released in the previous year. We don’t compile a list democratically; instead, we allow each contributing writer to name his top five, or top 10, and state his case. This approach would seem to cover a greater variety of good music, and yet one band was curiously absent from our lists: Interpol. These black-clad hipsters generated massive amounts of hype in 2002 and in turn massive amounts of backlash. In fact, the lists mentioned Turn on the Bright Lights only insofar as Pete criticized it....
Hey, don’t be a dork! Put down the book and turn on the boob tube!
By Margaret Lyons / October 3, 2003
Friday Clearly, you shouldn’t be at home watching TV on a Friday night. That’s a little shameful. But in case you have mono or you want to watch something while you pre-game—something you don’t have to pay attention to—it is, for the time being, acceptable to watch Miss Match. Alicia Silverstone flexes her acting muscles as a vaguely ditzy divorce lawyer (who claims that she could have worked at any firm, but chose to work with/for her dad) who moonlights as a matchmaker. Oh, the wacky hijinx; oh, the dramatic tension. Oh, what a not very good show. The first...
Small Time Cooks
By Jon Walsh / October 3, 2003
I kicked back in my office in Chicago, waiting for a case to find its way through my door. I’m a private eye, but I moonlight as a chef. The name on the door says Mark Wise, but at the restaurant I go by Mark Whisk. I wasn’t so good with cases; I did better with cases of food. I wished I could go full time as a chef, but I couldn’t get my big break. That all changed when this dame stumbled through my door. Called herself Maria. It sounded like she had more looks than sense, because she...
Lahiri fulfills her Pulitzer promise with new novel
By Heather Gillers / October 3, 2003
Even with a Ph.D. and a couple of M.A.s under your belt, it must be hard to chat about the identity politics of your own first novel. Yet such a chat characterized the question-and-answer session following Pulitzer winner Jhumpa Lahiri’s reading at International House on Wednesday, September 24. Did Lahiri intend to continue writing about people of South Asian descent?, listeners wanted to know. Had her writing been influenced by Bengali literary tradition? What did Lahiri predict for second-generation Bengali-Americans? These questions might equally appropriately have been addressed to the gentleman who introduced Lahiri, a professor not of literature but...
BRMC fails to thaw faithful
By David Lawlor / October 3, 2003
Last Saturday night, Wrigleyville stayed up late. Most residents of the neighborhood were basking in the glory of two Cubs wins in a doubleheader with the Pirates, which, combined with a loss earlier in the day by Houston to the Brewers, secured the North Side Nine’s first division title in fourteen years. But not everyone in Wrigleyville that night had baseball on their minds. A line stretching out the doors of the Metro wrapped itself around the block, testifying to the drawing power of (or lavish press bestowed upon) Black Rebel Motorcycle Club. A darling of the British music press...
Mara and Mehan’s Previews
By Mehan Jayasuria / September 11, 2003
Back in the day, East Bay punkers AFI were probably more likely to win the lottery than to ever appear on MTV or in the pages of Rolling Stone. But times change, and as the band evolved through years of Warped Tours and small clubs, its brand of Misfits-influenced punk became more grandiose and anthem-like. When the members signed to Dreamworks Records last year, they brought with them an intensely loyal fan base, the likes of which major labels rarely see. AFI’s newest album, Sing the Sorrow, produced by industry veterans Jerry Finn and Butch Vig, sounds like the album...
Pedophiles rejoice! Jeepers Creepers 2 and Thirteen fill soft-core void
By Garth Johnston / September 11, 2003
The two most talked about movies over Labor Day weekend were the low-budget horror flick Jeepers Creepers 2 and the low-budget child-porn flick Thirteen. One was the top grosser for the weekend, the other was the critical darling. With little to do on a Friday night, a friend and I decided to find out what all the fuss was about. Making our own double we feature saw the two back to back, with only a bucket of popcorn and a vat of Diet Coke between us. The two films, it turned out, have a whole lot in common. Both films...
Radiohead returns to rock-godhood
By Jack Skellington / September 11, 2003
On Saturday, August 23, the members of Radiohead found themselves in the unlikely locale of East Troy, Wisconsin. For reasons unclear to most, the band had chosen the venue Alpine Valley as the only Midwest stop on its tour for its new record, Hail to the Thief. So it was this venue, just off of Highway D, that thousands of fans from all over the Midwest converged upon. The 40,000 person venue was packed to the gills, mostly with folks who looked like anything but Radiohead fans. Beers were spilled. Footballs were thrown. And in the grass seats, yelled requests...
Radiohead does the math for you…again
By Andy Marchesseault / August 22, 2003
After a decade of recording, one thing is certain about Radiohead: they matter. This statement is true simply because of the interest the band attracts and the respect it commands, as the group has won as many devoted fans as they have turned off potential listeners with their seeming pretentiousness and attempted inscrutability. The band takes itself seriously, and music fans reciprocate the sentiment, whether ogling at the jacket art of Kid A, or just ignoring the slurred speech of frontman Thom Yorke. After ten years and six studio albums, there are many reasons to both love and hate Radiohead....
Snapshot shows Seabiscuit wins by a leg
By Adam Boostrom / August 22, 2003
“In 1938, a year of monumental turmoil, the number one newsmaker wasn’t Franklin Roosevelt or Adolf Hitler. It wasn’t even a person. It was an undersized, crooked-legged racehorse, owned by a bicycle repairman-turned-automobile magnate, trained by a virtually mute mustang breaker, and ridden by a half-blind failed prizefighter. The Horse was Seabiscuit, and this is his story.” So begins Laura Hillenbrand’s bestseller, Seabiscuit: An American Legend, on which the Universal Studios flick was based. The feel good story of Seabiscuit is so amazing that it’s hard to believe the events took place in the 30’s instead of on a made-for-T.V....
Lights, camera, OR action
By Joseph Hanson / August 2, 2003
Although the top two movies at the box office last weekend were both action-comedies produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, they’re really at opposite ends of the spectrum. Pirates of the Caribbean is a throwback to blockbuster movies that were driven by story. Its focus lies firmly on its characters–swordfights, sea battles, and undead armies accent the narrative rather than create it. Bad Boys 2, on the other hand, is driven by a succession of ornate action sequences and the star power of its cast, the comedic duo of Will Smith and Martin Lawrence. To paraphrase Agent Smith: One of these franchises...
Vancouverites show Boston that music is the new pornography
By Andy Marchesseault / August 2, 2003
I have lived outside Boston for all of my life, and I am all the better for it. Large cities (American ones, anyway) don’t get much quirkier or intimate than Boston, which is always delighting me with previously unseen nooks and crannies. Did you know it’s the Cradle of the Revolution? You can look that up. However, there is one particular thing that annoys me about my home city, and that is its early bedtime. Isn’t anything open after 1 a.m.? The answer to that question is no and that includes the public transportation system. We call the subway the...
The Mars Volta at the Metro
By Dr. Wolfram Tarant / August 2, 2003
The Mars Volta believe in ghosts. Their debut full-length, De-Loused in the Comatorium, attempts to relate the story of a departed friend’s journey through life and death, a friend who the band believes has been haunting them for some time. This, however, would not be the only ghost haunting the Volta. Founding members Omar Rodriguez-Lopez and Cedric Bixler Zavala cut their teeth playing in the seminal post-hardcore outfit At the Drive-In. You may remember them for their explosive live shows or perhaps the media hype that surrounded their major-label debut Relationship of Command (the album that was supposed to “save...
Sextet and the city
By Matt Zakosek / July 11, 2003
I’ve always maintained that the best part of HBO’s Sex and the City is neither the sex nor the city but the friendship among the four main characters. By that standard, Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez’s The Dirty Girls Social Club immediately ups the ante, because this debut novel is about six sassy girlfriends. There’s Lauren, the epicenter of the group; a bulimic, lovelorn newspaper columnist; Rebecca, who runs her magazine in a manner that makes Martha Stewart look laid-back; Elizabeth, a popular news anchor who’s hiding a rather pedestrian secret; Amber, whose subplot taught me more about history than I probably learned...
Wanted: Single green male, pretty face, no personality, must be named the Hulk
By Joseph Hanson / July 8, 2003
The Hulk is the story of a mild-mannered, dead-serious Eric Bana who turns into a bloated, overgrown Shrek whenever the world pisses him off. Directed by Ang Lee, who gave us the surprisingly graceful and shockingly realistic fight scenes in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, The Hulk is a foray into the chunky digital soup that accented previous comic-book hits such as Spiderman, Blade, and X-Men. By combining the choppy action sequences from Blade, the bold silliness of Spiderman, and the serious undertones of X-Men, The Hulk works to be as much like a living comic book as possible. Unfortunately, the...
T3: We swear it’s worth it even if everyone says it’s not
By Joseph Hanson / July 8, 2003
One of the worst things a sequel can do is change the tone. The Star Wars prequels and The Matrix: Reloaded made the switch from campy, B-movie fun to stuffy, self-important snoozefests. Sure, there were some great action scenes, but after being hammered over the head with long periods of stilted dialogue and dwindling plot, it’s hard to feel them. Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines carries over the campy, fun tone of its predecessors. It has its problems that keep it from being great like The Terminator or T2: Judgment Day, but in a time when most science fiction/action...
Voices’s guide for this wet, hot, American Friday
By Mara Stankiewicz / July 8, 2003
According to Michael Showalter, comedian/writer/everythingman, you should see Stella Comedy because, “It’s going to be so funny you’ll crap in your pants, which isn’t necessarily a good thing.” Aside from that, there are even more enticing reasons why you should the comedy show this Friday, July 11 at the Logan Square Auditorium at 10 pm.   First, Stella Comedy describes itself as “seventy-five original, unconventional evenings of stand-up, sketch, musical, and all other kinds of comedy drawn from both the mainstream and alternative comedy worlds.” Also, some famous friends of the State heroes, like Janeane Garofalo and David Cross, have...
Dismemberment Plan kicks the bucket with last leg
By Terry Hollandaise / June 27, 2003
The Dismemberment Plan Lake Trout Paris, Texas Metro Thursday, June 20, 2003 Local hipsters and children of the emo might have a foggy memory of the Dismemberment Plan as the last big thing of 1999-2000. It’s unlikely the D Plan enjoys the same vogue of three years back, without being too much of a jerk about it. Thankfully, the Dismemberment Plan are more interesting than yesterday’s papers. Somewhat more interesting. It depends, really, on which newspaper we’re talking about and how much stuff happened yesterday, and so on and so forth. A few brief remarks by way of explanation, then....
New Phair album: File between Avril and Shit
By Mara Stankiewicz / June 27, 2003
Liz Phair Liz Phair Capitol Records June 24, 2003 Coming out with a self-titled album halfway into a musical career is usually a bad sign. It’s indicative of an artist’s attempt to change her public image or to return to her “roots.” These artists almost always opt for ditching the quirkiness that earned them a record release in the first place and aim to fit current fads. For female performers, this means dumping drugs and ditching runny mascara, instead wearing Versace to movie premieres, and fitting their entire leftover rebel attitude into a mini Hot Topic tie. Ultimately, there is...
Barenboim ends the season with Strauss and drang
By Peter Kupfer / June 6, 2003
Daniel Barenboim concluded his 2002-03 residency with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra (CSO) this past weekend with a selection of works that embody the past and present of the Chicago Symphony: Edward Elgar’s Serenade for strings, Elliott Carter’s Of Rewaking (world premiere), and Richard Strauss’s Ein Heldenleben. Strauss completed the score for Ein Heldenleben (A Hero’s Life) in 1898 and conducted the first performance himself in March of the following year. The work is the last of his great 19th century tone poems-pieces that are meant to musically portray a specific program. He had already composed musical portraits of heroic characters...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / June 6, 2003
In this age of complete media saturation and mammoth publicity campaigns, it’s amazing that any record, let alone a truly great one, can slip through the cracks anymore. Yet here we have an album that was released over a month ago that has gone relatively unnoticed. While their fellow NYC residents, the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, have enjoyed fawning write-ups from all corners of the globe for a debut album that is merely adequate, Elefant’s minor masterpiece of pop craftsmanship has suffered unjust neglect. There’s nothing particularly flashy about front man and songwriter Diego Garcia, which perhaps accounts for the lack...
Can you spell D-I-Z-O-P-E?
By Ki Shih / June 6, 2003
Place: Washington, D.C. Year: 1999. Occasion: National Spelling Bee. Contestants: 249 spellers. 248 losers. One shot for glory. Engrossing documentaries often focus on some freak segment of society, zeroing in on strange people who have strange passions. People are exploited and audiences are entertained. Sometimes you leave feeling amused, and also, guilty. Spellbound, I was sure, would have the same effect by using dorky kids in braces and parents living vicariously through their children. But Spellbound was nothing of the sort. Amazing in its objectivity, the film revealed the contestants to be, well, kids. Granted kids who can spell things...
Disjointed White Pony follow-up not worth going Def over
By Lazlo Panaflex / June 6, 2003
The Deftones have always been something of an oddity in the world of hard rock. While they can often be found touring alongside radio-metal acts like Korn and Linkin Park, they’ve always put out heartfelt, artsy records with a distinctive (and now oft-imitated) sound. White Pony, released in 2000, sold well over a million copies, won a Grammy, and also happened to be one of the best metal records of the decade. Furthermore, unlike most of their disposable peers, the Deftones have enjoyed a long career and are more popular today than they’ve ever been. The band’s popularity was quite...
Lost Classic Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / June 6, 2003
I’m not sure how obscure this major-label LP was/is/will be, nor am I sure that I care how obscure I think it should/could/would be, but I do know one thing: I wish I had known about this record a long time ago. I can say that after one song, “Oblivious,” which is actually the best song ever. And there’s no shame in putting the best song you ever wrote as the first song on your first LP. Ask Steve Malkmus. About the song, though: It’s a corker. And where I come from (Berea, Ohio), corker means flamenco. Even better if...
In the mind of a music junkie: the best of the last four years
By Jon Garrett / June 6, 2003
I’m not one for teary goodbyes or, for that matter, self-reflection. But it would be a bit strange for me to leave without some sort of official Voices farewell. So here it is: the music and musical events that have meant the most over the past four years-according to me. Looking back on it, I can’t imagine how I could hope to sum everything up in a few measly paragraphs. Really, it’s impossible. What you have in front of you maybe doesn’t represent the best of what I saw or heard, but it is what I remember after being inundated...
You think you know, but you have no idea
By Tom Zimpleman / June 6, 2003
When I was editing Voices, I had to present the section at the first newspaper meeting of the year. A large group of students showed up-most of them wanting to write for Viewpoints-but a few people made their way over to my part of the room, where I stood backed up against the water cooler. I had to sell Voices to a new staff of writers, most of whom already wanted to write something for me, and my only task was to explain what the section was and what I was looking for in articles. I fear that my presentation...
Pippin comes of age on the First Floor stage
By Andrew Marchesseault / June 6, 2003
I have bad memories of Pippin. Mind you, I am generally a strong proponent of musical theater, and value the efforts of just about any production, even Cats. That said, I approached my first viewing of Pippin, in my sophomore year of high school, with high expectations for a rollicking good time, not just because I enjoy the medium, but also because my school’s theater department regularly churned out excellent shows. But, for whatever reason, I left the theater that night with a bad taste in my mouth. The production was not without its glitzy, giddy high points, but it...
Wagner transforms tragedy into beautiful music
By Anne Lovering Rounds / May 30, 2003
On the night of February 15, at the national convention of the American Choral Director’s Association, the Concordia Choir of Moorhead, Minnesota was singing in New York City. The single work on the program was a piece by Rene Clausen in its premiere performance entitled “Memorial (September Morning).” The hundreds of freckled, innocent-looking Minnesotans who filled the stage were preemptively mindful of their surroundings. All–the black-clad chorus and orchestra, and especially, as he approached the podium, the ashen Clausen–wore faces of solemnity. No joking allowed! In Riverside Church, with a piece that would make The Two Plane Crashes explicit with...
Finalecuts, May sweeps revisited
By The Maroon Staff / May 30, 2003
Beverly Hills, 90210 Ok, so the 90210 thing kind of sucked. Actually, not even kind of. This is because it was a weird phony love-fest and, though I wished on all my eyelashes, not a new installment of the show. Instead everyone was… nice to one another. Tell me, what’s the fun in that? Watching Gabrielle Carteris get teary-eyed about Jason Priestley’s near-fatal car accident made me realize just how much I don’t care. Like, car racing is very dangerous and not for just any former teen heartthrob off the street to try his hand at. You do not get...
Italian gets the job done against its blockbuster peers
By Nick Kolakowski / May 30, 2003
I’m going to approach this review of The Italian Job by talking about The Matrix Reloaded and X2. Roundabout, but have a little patience. I was excited about Reloaded, having been a huge fan of the first Matrix. But somewhere between film and cultural phenomenon, the Wachowskis forgot the old adage: a film is just a film. Reloaded’s seemingly endless speeches were supposed to explain Life, the Universe, and Everything else those two don’t encompass, but only ended up seeming pretentious. Even speaking the words of another, brighter man, Keanu Reeves is never going to convince me he knows anything,...
Bach-up Laredo impresses in relief
By Peter Kupfer / May 30, 2003
In my most recent review I wrote that Valery Gergiev and the Kirov Orchestra had “saved the day in remarkable fashion” when they replaced the Rotterdam Philharmonic at the last minute. In fact, I claimed that it was probably “for the better,” given the works on the program. Well, with Daniel Barenboim ill, it was Jaime Laredo’s turn to save the day last Friday evening at Symphony Center. And, dare I say it again, it was probably for the better. The program consisted of Johann Sebastian Bach’s Four Orchestral Suites. These works likely represent merely a small portion of the...
Steve gets off the pavement and on the pig at the Metro
By Andrew Marchesseault / May 30, 2003
Now, I don’t claim to have anything more than cursory knowledge of the oft-revered, now dearly-departed band Pavement. I own two of their albums, the ones that bookend the decade of the ’90s, as well as their career. From what I know, their debut, Slanted and Enchanted, recently given the 10th anniversary treatment by the folks at Matador, is considered something of a watershed record in literate slacker-rock. However, the band’s fifth album and swansong, Terror Twilight, is not nearly as heralded, more of a precursor than a fitting end to a brief but startlingly influential career. In the few...
Wagner transforms tragedy into beautiful music
By Anne Lovering Rounds / May 30, 2003
On the night of February 15, at the national convention of the American Choral Director’s Association, the Concordia Choir of Moorhead, Minnesota was singing in New York City. The single work on the program was a piece by Rene Clausen in its premiere performance entitled “Memorial (September Morning).” The hundreds of freckled, innocent-looking Minnesotans who filled the stage were preemptively mindful of their surroundings. All–the black-clad chorus and orchestra, and especially, as he approached the podium, the ashen Clausen–wore faces of solemnity. No joking allowed! In Riverside Church, with a piece that would make The Two Plane Crashes explicit with...
Finalecuts, May sweeps revisited
By The Maroon Staff / May 30, 2003
Beverly Hills, 90210 Ok, so the 90210 thing kind of sucked. Actually, not even kind of. This is because it was a weird phony love-fest and, though I wished on all my eyelashes, not a new installment of the show. Instead everyone was… nice to one another. Tell me, what’s the fun in that? Watching Gabrielle Carteris get teary-eyed about Jason Priestley’s near-fatal car accident made me realize just how much I don’t care. Like, car racing is very dangerous and not for just any former teen heartthrob off the street to try his hand at. You do not get...
Alkaline Trio disappoints old and new fans alike
By Mara Stankiewicz / May 23, 2003
There are two kinds of Alkaline Trio fans: those who have been listening to the Chicago natives since the halcyon days of 1997’s Goddamnit and those who caught on after their last two albums, From Here to Infirmary and Good Mourning. At their sold out Riviera show on Thursday night, Alkaline Trio attempted to please both kinds of fans but failed. Positioned in front of a black, white, and red banner depicting three graves marked by crosses on a hillside, the band assumed that most of the audience had never heard Goddamnit and then failed to provide an innovative set...
Try though you might, you just can’t hate Wakefield
By Brad Heffern / May 23, 2003
Today there are an amazing number of bands that seem more than willing to follow Blink 182 off into the midget-humping sunset. And why not? The current state of popular music provides nearly limitless profitability to catchy pop bands with cute members. Hell, the members of Blink play in other bands that rip off their own music, so they can get rich based on their own success. Arista Records’ bet in the pop punk race is Maryland’s Wakefield, whom I saw open for the All-American Rejects last Monday. Wakefield is a four-piece band, comprising guitarist/singer J.D. Tennyson, guitarist/singer Ryan Escolopio,...
Composer fails to deliver good music on command
By Deidre Kelly / May 23, 2003
Commissioning a piece of music is always a risk, as the commissioner never knows what he is going to get. When the work is destined to be performed by a major orchestra, selecting an established and esteemed composer seems a reasonable strategy for minimizing this risk. But as the Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s world premiere performances of Bernard Rands’s apokryphos demonstrated, it is no guarantee. Rands’s work for the orchestra, chorus, and soprano soloist was underwritten by the Edward F. Schmidt Family Commissioning Fund in memory of Margaret Hillis, Chicago Symphony Chorus founder and director from 1957 to 1994. The fact...
Grandaddy gears up for newest release with confidence
By Jon Garrett / May 23, 2003
Most groups wouldn’t start a label to release an album by a fictitious band, but then most groups don’t have a near-professional caliber skateboarder for a front man, either. And yet, these are arguably the most mundane aspects of Grandaddy, a Modesto, California five-piece which began as just another Pavement-esque indie outfit and has quietly morphed into a stargazing, psychedelic collective on par with modern pop contortionists like The Flaming Lips and Beck. The shift has been so dramatic that many critics have accused Grandaddy of trend-hopping: gauging what’s cool in indie circles and imitating the standard-bearers. However, in an...
Fire Escape is in your Head
By Jesse C. Friedman / May 20, 2003
This evening, Fire Escape Films, the on-campus filmmaking group, will premiere its second longer-length narrative film, Out Of My Head, at Doc Films in the Max Palevsky Cinema in Ida Noyes Hall. The project, created in collaboration with University Theater and funded by a grant from the University of Chicago Arts Planning Council, was written, directed, and produced by a cast and crew drawn entirely from the university community. The film, starring such UT actors as college fourth-year Bryson Engelen and first-year Sarah-Doe Osborne, explores three days in the life of a shy 16-year-old girl living in the shadow of...
Summer Breeze shows that variety is the spice of life
By Vincent Choi / May 20, 2003
This past Saturday, Voices dispatched intrepid reporters Vincent and Andy to cover the evening’s Summer Breeze concert. This year’s event featured the formidable lineup of Chicago pop-punkers OK Go, Brooklyn progressive rapper Talib Kweli, and Venus’s own Bela Fleck and the Flecktones. While our courageous journalists did not always agree on the finer points of the performances, Andy is forever indebted to Vincent, as he was the only one who could cover OK Go and Talib Kweli while Andy was stuck in traffic on the way back from a baseball game in Milwaukee. Go Brewers! Vincent: The sound crew set...
Exploring the mind of a homosexual psycho killer
By Tim Michaels / May 20, 2003
With a clamoring thud, the curtains rise, and a tale of mortality, sexuality, and obsession grips the audience for a 90-minute thrill ride. The journey takes the form of a one-act play by Jim Grimsley, who many remember from his play Dream Boy. He has teamed up with the About Face Theatre Company for the world premier of his newest play, Fascination, about a homosexual serial killer whose internal struggles turn what seems to be a kind young man into a monstrous killer. The play stars Mark Montgomery as Randall Bartelman, a frustrated man whose desires manifest themselves in violent...
Malkovich tries too hard in his film directing debut
By Esther Sullivan / May 16, 2003
When a film’s locale flashes across the screen as “Latin America, The Recent Past,” audiences should be wary. Though there are many films in which this type of generality is appropriate, or even necessary, The Dancer Upstairs is not one of them. In this case, the film’s failure to identify any specific place or time is indicative of writer Nicholas Shakespeare’s inability to nail down the story he wants to tell–a problem that is aggravated by first-time director John Malkovich’s general indecisiveness and vague imagination.Inspired by Peruvian guerilla Abimael Guzman’s arrest above a Lima dance studio, The Dancer Upstairs was...
The Matrix reloads and kicks your pod-incubated ass
By Joseph N. Liss / May 16, 2003
We’re in the Matrix, a massive sensorial lie about everything we take the world to be. Our true bodies float oblivious in a horrible enervating womb that sucks our life energy to power the computer system that feeds us our illusory consciousness. There are only a few gifted and nonconformist hackers whose unique attunement to artificial reality allows them to operate in the Matrix. They spend most of their time fleeing the Agents, the matrix’s kung fu gestapo, and finding new subjects to awaken. As we placidly watch the buds burst from the trees, read Thoreau, and imagine ourselves free,...
Image is nothing, subtext is everything; see Ghosts
By Jared Ranere / May 16, 2003
The plays of Henrik Ibsen, who is often considered the father of modern drama, present a particular challenge for anyone involved in their production. Very fond of purposely withholding explicit descriptions of emotions, Ibsen relies on subtext to flesh out the often strained and bizarre relationships of his characters. In order to create a show that exposes the full weight of the plot and the intensity of the action, the director and actors must make very specific choices about the content of the subtext–a character’s thoughts and feelings, which are not expressed through the superficial significance of the dialogue. Once...
Barenboim gets sloppy while Tallis shows him up
By Nicholas Betson / May 16, 2003
In the last two weeks I had the opportunity of attending greatly varying concerts–one consisting of late Romantic German “tone poems” (the term here widely construed), and the other of English Renaissance polyphony from the late 16th century. Uniting them here in one review seems to give short shrift to both, but hopefully something positive can arise from a disparate comparison, which is something that both concerts thrived (or could have thrived) upon. By far the finest piece of Daniel Barenboim’s concert was Strauss’s Death and Transfiguration. Crafted with an outlook to the large, overriding epic narrative and with careful...
Despite rain, Chicago hip-hop busts a move
By Tim Michaels / May 13, 2003
Despite rain, heavy winds, and horrible conditions, the Hip Hop Afternoon celebration, one of the many concerts which are a part of the FOTA festival, took place on Sunday, May 11. The concert was sponsored and run by The University of Hip Hop, an RSO dedicated to promoting the musical genre on campus. Although the event was moved indoors due to inclement weather, the events, which included live graffiti tagging, still went forward, though only with a modest crowd. Poor advertising and the Mother’s Day holiday were other reasons why the event was less popular than expected. The concert featured...
Youngsters all fired up
By Jon Cowperthwait / May 13, 2003
When Fire Escape Films presents its annual spring film festival this Wednesday evening at Max Palevsky Cinema, audience members will be treated to a first from the student filmmaking group: a program composed mostly of entries by first-time filmmakers. As the result of a surge in new members–Fire Escape’s rolls have more than doubled in the last year–introductory projects overwhelmingly comprised the pool of submissions for this year’s event, leaving little room for entries from upperclassmen, whose short films have historically dominated the festival. “The Undergraduates,” the theme of this year’s screenings, acknowledges and celebrates this demographic shift, which is...
University Theater shows versatility
By Andrew Marchesseault / May 13, 2003
This past Sunday night, University Theater (UT) got its shot at its own installment in the Festival of the Arts. The evening featured three segments, and three different sides, of theater at the University of Chicago. Unfortunately, I was not able to attend J.D. Barton’s magic show, which began the festivities at 6 pm. However, I was able to see the two staged readings that concluded the evening, and which contrasted with one another in just about as many ways as possible. The first reading was of Oleanna, the knockout play written by David Mamet, which was later adapted into...
This ain’t no Wallace and Gromit
By Elizabeth Pearson / May 13, 2003
Students expecting to see a normal claymation short by Alex Pile and Kyle B. Stiff at last Friday’s FOTA opening were undoubtedly surprised by the explicit sex and violence portrayed, though according to Pile, viewers shouldn’t look at it as porn. “People don’t know what to think yet,” said director and fourth-year Pile. Others who worked on the film had entirely different ideas as to what it was about. Stiff, the animator, said the movie was about lost innocence. “While Alex was making the unicorn statue that went in the hotel lobby, we were talking about all this horrible stuff...
Two young women get personal, avoid cliche
By Griffin Geller / May 13, 2003
Over this past weekend, the University community was given a remarkable treat in the form of two one-woman shows written and performed by Elizabeth Levy and Kay Perdue. Remarkably candid and elegantly written plays, Levy’s Leaving Phoebe and Perdue’s If Only You Had a Little Discipline, You’d Be Fine, both recently won the Olga and Paul Menn Foundation Prize for Playwriting (second and first place, respectively), and it shows. Both pieces, in markedly different ways, allow their audience entrance into the minds of their performers in touching and thought-provoking ways. If Only You Had a Little Discipline, You’d Be Fine...
Oberst puts on two shows, one apathetic and one angsty
By Edward Appleby / May 13, 2003
Bright Eyes is not so much a band as an amorphous collective of Omaha musicians, rotating around the locus of 22-year old singer/songwriter Conor Oberst. Oberst has a lot to face these days: a media buzz that has recently become deafening, preemptively crowning him “the next Dylan,” an unfortunate celebrity status placing him in the gossip pages of newsstand magazines (recent allegations include relationships with Winona Ryder and Azure Ray’s Maria Taylor), and, perhaps worst of all, the admiration of obsessive fans, some seemingly too young to identify with his music’s dark emotional content. What’s a kid from Omaha to...
Postmodern nonsense will leave you unfulfilled
By Elizabeth Edmonds / May 13, 2003
You know how everyone likes pie? Or at least some kind of pie? Cherry, apple, pumpkin, rhubarb, especially if it’s home-baked with that perfect kind of crust that doesn’t feel at all artificial–someone loves it. Sure, some people are under the impression that they don’t like pie, but usually these people have been misled into thinking that the pie-like substance they’ve found in the freezer section of their grocery stores is actually pie. For these people, I have news: what you’re eating is not actually pie. And, you know how everyone likes to see a good play once in a...
Blood Brothers resist categories, define themselves
By Seymour Glass / May 9, 2003
I’m supposed to boil The Blood Brothers’ music down to a phrase, an easy to swallow sub-genre that encompasses their entire being. This single expression is supposed to explain to you, the reader, what they are all about, and give you a good idea of what they sound like. This really shouldn’t be a challenging task, considering that there are about a hundred journalistic terms ending with the “-core” suffix, right? Wrong. The Blood Brothers’ music is an amalgam of punk, hardcore, pop, metal, and even dance music. These aspects are so artfully and inventively blended that the band consistently...
Kill Obscurity
By Bonnie Yap / May 9, 2003
If you’re like me, you’ve spent a little too much money lately and have just paid the rent. I know I’m feeling strapped for cash and ideas. This means that the only theme that I could think of to fit the following restaurants is that they’re reasonably-priced and college student-friendly. Leo’s Lunchroom may look like a dive, in that nostalgic-diner way. The majority of the menu is super cheap, and because it’s open until 11p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, it makes for really good pre-bar/club food. Their strength is solid sandwiches and surprising salads. Every evening features more expensive entree...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / May 9, 2003
Recently listening to this album with a friend of mine, I made the comment that I kind of like its sound. Her response was something like, “Apparently, you haven’t ever heard good R&B.” While perfectly understandable, it should not be used to dismiss the new album from some of nu-R&B’s best soul-men. Blackstreet’s Level II is an album full of contrived and confused statements about sex and flirtation that have little value beyond mild party humor and the pleasure of hearing catchy production so polished and clean you can eat your pizza off of it. Maybe that’s why I kind...
Canadian supergroup lays it on too thick on new Version
By Whet Moser / May 9, 2003
It’s tough to formulate general principles with regards to something as ridiculously subjective as pop music, but something along the lines of a Supergroup Principle seems safe: no supergroup will ever equal the sum of its parts. Don’t believe me? Try this: can you name three Traveling Wilburys songs? How about three Dylan songs? Three Tom Petty songs? How often do you spin CSNY instead of CSN? Oysterhead instead of Phish? It works for other collective endeavors, too: Can you name who won last year’s NBA championship? How about the All-Star game? In the context of CSNY and the Traveling...
Cusack’s new horror flick transcends its influences… sort of
By Esther Sullivan / May 9, 2003
Identity has all the trappings of a traditional horror movie: a secluded motel in the middle of the desert; a flash flood that knocks down phone lines and makes roads impassible; and a series of gruesome, inexplicable deaths that has everyone wondering who’s next. It is also a crafty whodunit that positions the audience as the detective, forcing us to suspect each of the characters in turn. The film hosts a medley of actors. There are Hollywood standards, indie crop, television stars and even a blast from the past (Rebecca DeMornay, ironically cast here as a washed-up actress). John Cusack...
Mustonen’s silver hammer comes down upon their heads
By Christian Kraus / May 9, 2003
Last week, in these very pages, Shira Katz took the liberty of calling Evgeny Kissin, the world-famous young Russian pianist, “weird”. Whether one agrees with this nomenclature or not, one thing is certain: when Olli Mustonen, the not-yet-so-famous young Finnish pianist, steps on stage, words like “weird,” “quirky,” “oddballish,” and such would be mundane and superficial. They only get at a level of showmanly appearance, of onstage antics, of immediate sense-impressions. But the next level of weirdness is something quite different–namely, Mustonen’s strikingly novel conception of the pianistic activity. It is a conception which, in its musical realization, deserves nothing...
Grandaddy: in the groove and out of place at the Riv
By Whet Moser / May 9, 2003
The question of the night for Grandaddy’s show was: what’s Grandaddy doing opening for Pete Yorn? My companions and I eagerly debated this on the way to the concert, and on the way back as well, since it didn’t appear that they had any more of a clue than we did. Rooney, which features Jason Schwartzman’s younger brother and members that look charmingly like baby Strokes, opened the Chicago stop on the Pete Yorn Day I Forgot AT&T Deregulation Cell Phone Tour. From their last song, it appeared they do respectable power pop. They’re young yet, although it’s unclear whether...
Blood Brothers resist categories, define themselves
By Seymour Glass / May 9, 2003
I’m supposed to boil The Blood Brothers’ music down to a phrase, an easy to swallow sub-genre that encompasses their entire being. This single expression is supposed to explain to you, the reader, what they are all about, and give you a good idea of what they sound like. This really shouldn’t be a challenging task, considering that there are about a hundred journalistic terms ending with the “-core” suffix, right? Wrong. The Blood Brothers’ music is an amalgam of punk, hardcore, pop, metal, and even dance music. These aspects are so artfully and inventively blended that the band consistently...
Oh yeah! Karen O humps a mic stand and screams
By David Lawlor / May 6, 2003
Having released their debut album just the day before, New York’s Yeah Yeah Yeahs rolled into the Metro last Wednesday with the following of an established act. The Yeahs, you see, have been hyped as the “best thing to happen to music since [insert noun here]” on both sides of the Atlantic, courtesy of NME and Rolling Stone. The aggrandizing of the band has had much more to do with their live performances than their recorded output, which has been spotty at best. Prior to their new full-length, the Yeahs had released two EPs, the second of which was almost...
May not be a comic book, but X2 will still kick your ass
By Garth Johnston / May 6, 2003
X2: X-Men United was released this past Friday. The Maroon sent two of its very own X-Men fanatics to scope it out and then fight about it, for your reading pleasure. Garth: X2: X-Men United is an entertaining blur of a movie filled with hollow characters, empty cliffhangers, and dull stereotypes. Over the course of the movie, a lot of really important, “world hanging in the balance” kind of stuff happens. There are good guys, bad guys, and maybe-bad guys. One good guy has long claws that come out of his hands. He’s angry about things and smokes cigars. There’s...
Invisible man, floating cup
By Evan Kaldor / May 6, 2003
Paul Pfeiffer is touted as one of America’s hottest emerging artists, so it is a particular credit for Chicago’s Museum of Contemporary Art that they hold the first major exhibition of his work. Pfeiffer uses much of the special effects technology we find so frequently at the movies and applies it to other activities, principally sports. Perhaps his most famous series, which appears at this exhibition, involves his works on the NBA. There are two pieces in the show that I found to be particularly impressive. The first revolves around the Stanley Cup, hockey’s ultimate prize, and shows clips of...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / May 2, 2003
A little known fact about Pete Yorn is that he briefly considered signing with Sub Pop. Apparently, there was interest on the label’s end, but Yorn opted to go with Columbia Records instead, partly because his hero, Bruce Springsteen, had called the label home for many years, but mainly because he wasn’t interested in slogging it out on the indie circuit–playing in glorified bars for limited recognition. Fact is that Yorn always wanted a big audience, one that only a major label could and eventually did afford him. He got his wish shortly after the release of the single “For...
The men, the myth, the Trail of Dead
By Andrew Marchesseault / May 2, 2003
…And You Will Know Us By the Trail of Dead. With a name like that, it’s kind of hard to keep a low profile. On second thought, with a name like that, you’re just praying that you get noticed, which is exactly what the band with the long name wants. It has standards, though, of course; its ambition might outweigh its eventual output, but that’s the only thing it will allow itself to shoot for, no matter how absurd it might seem. “We’ve only just scratched the surface of all the things we really want to do,” says Conrad Keely,...
Havens a golden oldie
By Brad Heffern / May 2, 2003
Richie Havens has been doing this for a long time; the guy was the first performer at Woodstock. Woodstock. I have a feeling that 99 percent of the people that read this weren’t alive for Woodstock. After all this time, you might think he’d have lost it, but his performance last Friday at the Old Town School of Folk Music proves that just the opposite is true. The Old Town School was just another stop on a tour that has stretched on for 10 years. This leg is in support of his newest album, Wishing Well. Looking around, I was...
Don’t Be ashamed to watch it: this is the real Must See TV
By Willa Paskin / May 2, 2003
The end of the television season is fast approaching, and that means we?re all in for a treat. Listed below are the four most exciting television events of the May sweeps period. None of the three major networks are represented, and none of these shows will be returning in the fall in their present incarnations. Yet, in these four shows you should find everything and anything television has ever had to offer. Beverly Hills, 90210: 10-Year High School Reunion: If you?re not pissing yourself about this one, you have no soul. At first I thought it was going to be...
This Week on WHPK 88.5 FM
By The Maroon Staff / May 2, 2003
Are you secretly fond of ridiculous musical genres? Do you like to save money? Do you dream about strawberry cobbler? If you answered YES! to any of these questions, then tune into “Mermaid in a Manhole” every other Tuesday morning from 2-4 a.m. and dance along with Courtney to the lush sounds of electropop, noise pop, post-rock, shoegazer, twee, and slowcore. Not only will you be highly entertained and giddy with amusement, but Rolling Stone guarantees that an overwhelming urge to jive will overtake you as the sounds of Slowdive, Galaxie 500, Wolfie, Pram, Ida, and Mates of State penetrate...
Never Mind the Locals
By Loren Jan Wilson / May 2, 2003
Show #1: The Sixtyeights, Fri. May 2, 9:30 p.m. @ Lyons Den, 1934 W. Irving Park, 21+ The Sixtyeights are four undergraduate students who can’t keep from giving in to their Clash fantasies; they look comfortable playing their tight and fast punk rock, so you’ll have no choice but to forgive them. In my humble opinion, their attitude is more “Vintage ’77” than anybody else I’ve seen in the last year, and like countless Brits before them, they’re not afraid to use solos to get their point across. The Sixtyeights play first of four bands, and it’s punk rock night,...
Dar Williams and friends wow the Vic crowd
By Tim Michaels / May 2, 2003
A lonely guitar began to strum as the sweet caressing vocals of folk singer Dar Williams rang throughout the packed Vic Theater in Belmont. On tour for her new album, The Beauty of the Rain, Williams performed at the Vic on April 25 to a devoted crowd of fans who had eagerly awaited the release of her sixth album. Before Williams took the stage, the audience was treated to an opening act by the Ben Taylor Band, whose lead singer is the son of folk icons James Taylor and Carly Simon. Taylor’s voice is eerily similar to his father’s, but...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / May 2, 2003
A little known fact about Pete Yorn is that he briefly considered signing with Sub Pop. Apparently, there was interest on the label’s end, but Yorn opted to go with Columbia Records instead, partly because his hero, Bruce Springsteen, had called the label home for many years, but mainly because he wasn’t interested in slogging it out on the indie circuit–playing in glorified bars for limited recognition. Fact is that Yorn always wanted a big audience, one that only a major label could and eventually did afford him. He got his wish shortly after the release of the single “For...
The men, the myth, the Trail of Dead
By Andrew Marchesseault / May 2, 2003
…And You Will Know Us By the Trail of Dead. With a name like that, it’s kind of hard to keep a low profile. On second thought, with a name like that, you’re just praying that you get noticed, which is exactly what the band with the long name wants. It has standards, though, of course; its ambition might outweigh its eventual output, but that’s the only thing it will allow itself to shoot for, no matter how absurd it might seem. “We’ve only just scratched the surface of all the things we really want to do,” says Conrad Keely,...
Havens a golden oldie
By Brad Heffern / May 2, 2003
Richie Havens has been doing this for a long time; the guy was the first performer at Woodstock. Woodstock. I have a feeling that 99 percent of the people that read this weren’t alive for Woodstock. After all this time, you might think he’d have lost it, but his performance last Friday at the Old Town School of Folk Music proves that just the opposite is true. The Old Town School was just another stop on a tour that has stretched on for 10 years. This leg is in support of his newest album, Wishing Well. Looking around, I was...
Don’t Be ashamed to watch it: this is the real Must See TV
By Willa Paskin / May 2, 2003
The end of the television season is fast approaching, and that means we?re all in for a treat. Listed below are the four most exciting television events of the May sweeps period. None of the three major networks are represented, and none of these shows will be returning in the fall in their present incarnations. Yet, in these four shows you should find everything and anything television has ever had to offer. Beverly Hills, 90210: 10-Year High School Reunion: If you?re not pissing yourself about this one, you have no soul. At first I thought it was going to be...
Scottish blokes expand musical horizons, have a beer
By Tom Zimpleman / April 29, 2003
The news: a band from Glasgow has released an album with a dozen similar songs mostly of the same high quality. The assumptions: either Belle & Sebastian have re-released The Boy with the Arab Strap, or Mogwai have finally gotten their formula down (and I am inflating the number of tracks on the album). Both assumptions are incorrect (although assumption one might earn partial credit); the band to release said album is, in fact, Arab Strap. There may be a dim recognition of the name amongst some readers. “Those guys,” they are now thinking, “are the guys with the drum...
Great pianist Brendel lives up to his reputation
By Christian Kraus / April 29, 2003
When revered pianist Alfred Brendel strolls on stage, unhurriedly and always slightly bent forward, his age makes itself felt, as does his idiosyncrasy. Scoffers might compare him to the hunchback of Notre Dame, but with his 70-odd years he still commands a magisterial stage presence: withdrawn and introspective, mumbling to himself like the late Glenn Gould, at once intensely concentrated and supremely witty. That said, Brendel’s great popularity among today’s classical music audience is somewhat surprising because this deeply serious artist is anything but a showman. For decades his repertory has comprised none of the great romantic showpieces: no Chopin,...
Minus Five lead singer + alcohol + Wilco = wild night
By Elizabeth Ptacek / April 29, 2003
Say you’re at a party with friends who like to make noise and be noticed. You’re all drinking, but nobody’s yet crossed the line. In fact, the other kids still think your loudmouth antics are kind of cool. Then, suddenly, it becomes clear that someone will need to hug the porcelain before the evening is over. He’s falling all over the place and doesn’t seem to notice. He can still form sentences, but that won’t last long. He’s still having fun. Do you tell him he’s through? Not if you’re Wilco. Maybe everybody had agreed to pull out all the...
Ministry of Fun
By Pete Beatty / April 29, 2003
Pete Yorn/Grandaddy/Rooney Riviera Theater 4746 N. Racine Although Chicagoland Pete Yorn fans snapped up all the tickets to this show weeks ago, it still might be worth up trekking to Uptown’s Riv to catch openers Grandaddy and Rooney and trying to scalp a seat. California space-rockers Grandaddy, in an unfortunately rare Chicago appearance, will air new material from their upcoming and likely dope platter Sumday, while Rooney boasts raw demi-celebrity power. Lead singer Robert Carmine is the son of Talia Shire and the younger brother of Phantom Planet drummer and Rushmore cult figurehead Jason Schwartzman. The catch-they’re not that bad....
Wire proves age ain’t nothing but a number
By Jon Garrett / April 29, 2003
It’s all about the art of continuing; 27 years removed from its birth, 12 from its last album of new material, and with countless bands having formed and crumbled in the interim, Wire has roused from its slumber to issue Send. In most cases, the return of a major artist following an extended layoff elicits a collective groan–understandable, given the unfortunate career trajectories of Suicide and Peter Gabriel. Truth is, artists don’t tend to age well, and most later works fall short of early high points, especially when there are significant gaps between albums. However, Wire is not your typical...
Great pianist Brendel lives up to his reputation
By Christian Kraus / April 29, 2003
When revered pianist Alfred Brendel strolls on stage, unhurriedly and always slightly bent forward, his age makes itself felt, as does his idiosyncrasy. Scoffers might compare him to the hunchback of Notre Dame, but with his 70-odd years he still commands a magisterial stage presence: withdrawn and introspective, mumbling to himself like the late Glenn Gould, at once intensely concentrated and supremely witty. That said, Brendel’s great popularity among today’s classical music audience is somewhat surprising because this deeply serious artist is anything but a showman. For decades his repertory has comprised none of the great romantic showpieces: no Chopin,...
Minus Five lead singer + alcohol + Wilco = wild night
By Elizabeth Ptacek / April 29, 2003
Say you’re at a party with friends who like to make noise and be noticed. You’re all drinking, but nobody’s yet crossed the line. In fact, the other kids still think your loudmouth antics are kind of cool. Then, suddenly, it becomes clear that someone will need to hug the porcelain before the evening is over. He’s falling all over the place and doesn’t seem to notice. He can still form sentences, but that won’t last long. He’s still having fun. Do you tell him he’s through? Not if you’re Wilco. Maybe everybody had agreed to pull out all the...
Wire proves age ain’t nothing but a number
By Jon Garrett / April 29, 2003
It’s all about the art of continuing; 27 years removed from its birth, 12 from its last album of new material, and with countless bands having formed and crumbled in the interim, Wire has roused from its slumber to issue Send. In most cases, the return of a major artist following an extended layoff elicits a collective groan–understandable, given the unfortunate career trajectories of Suicide and Peter Gabriel. Truth is, artists don’t tend to age well, and most later works fall short of early high points, especially when there are significant gaps between albums. However, Wire is not your typical...
Chicago’s Assassins take aim at the top of the charts
By Jon Garrett / April 29, 2003
By their 10th gig, most local Chicago bands are lucky to have graduated to the Empty Bottle. Then there’s Assassins. Approximately 10 shows into their career, they’ve already played to a capacity crowd at Schuba’s, flown out for a label showcase in Los Angeles, and opened for the Soundtrack of Our Lives and Zwan. Granted, the band has technically been in existence since last May, and has been feverishly writing and recording songs in the interim. To the outsider, the rise probably seems rather sudden. But to understand exactly how this happened, you have to go back a bit. “When...
New twist on familiar sounds makes for a great album
By Tom Zimpleman / April 25, 2003
I believe it was William James who said “the line between what is me and mine is very hard to draw.” I presume that this holds true for the things we inherit just as it does for the things that we voluntarily acquire. If such is the case, then Holopaw are as much a part of you and me as any band possibly can be. They are the modern, but nonetheless easily recognizable, standard bearers for a type of American music, and a type of American culture, that we have all inherited: the world of backwoods stories, guitars strummed on...
Sex, booze and stupidity: spring break on the big screen
By Mara Stankiewicz / April 25, 2003
When the cast of The Real Cancun read Dr. Seuss’s Oh, The Places You’ll Go as children, they probably didn’t realize that the places they’d go would include a wet T-shirt contest or a hormonal beachfront house complete with communal showering and haphazard hooking up. Well, at least their parents didn’t realize it. The producers of MTV’s infamous The Real World work their magic on a group of spring breakers spreading to the big screen their valuable message that everyone is a type of person. For The Real World-literate among you, that means everyone is either a small-town virgin, horny...
Unwilling to sell out, Jurassic 5 wants your love
By Andrew Marchesseault / April 25, 2003
Jurassic 5 is a rap group without a home. They’ve been together for years now, forming in the progressive halcyon days of the L.A. hip-hop scene, which also birthed such underground sensations as Dilated Peoples and the Pharcyde. However, J5 has been at the forefront of this group, both commercially and message-wise. As the recognized leader of this pack, J5 embodies a whole movement’s vision and voice, using old-school hip-hop beats and harmonizing to deliver a new-school message of less bling-bling and more understanding. They are a pretty easy pill to swallow. But don’t think they’re happy with that. “The...
Civic Orchestra does Brahms like he’s meant to be done
By Anne Lovering Rounds / April 25, 2003
According to my music-theorist informant, by the time orchestral players nab positions with a big-name ensemble, they ought to have memorized the orchestral works of the following composers: 1) Mozart, 2) Beethoven, and 3) Brahms. Brahms only wrote four symphonies, and Beethoven only wrote nine, but Mozart wrote 41–which is an awful lot. But the comment of this music theorist, a pianist and violinist in his own right, was only half flippant. In fact, it makes all too much sense: a name-brand performance of a famous, grandiose, pull-out-all-the-stops symphonic work, like Brahms’ fourth symphony, often feels like a recording, a...
Second City skewers cows, sacred and otherwise
By Andrew Marchesseault / April 22, 2003
War. What a riot, huh? Boy, if I had a nickel for every time I guffawed at a divergent missile shooting through some poor Baghdadi’s living room, I’d be a rich man! Of course, this is only one way of finding war humorous. Perhaps the more humane, and less sadistic, way is to approach it in the method of some of our paragons of modern comedy: to mock its absurdity, to ridicule its purported-to-be mission of “liberation,” and to reveal it as nothing more than a horrible travesty. The Onion, that venerable news publication, has by-and-large successfully skewered the appropriate...
Pop signed, sealed, delivered by The Postal Service
By Tom Zimpleman / April 22, 2003
I’ve always been a big fan of pop music in general,” Benjamin Gibbard told me in the middle of our interview. The singer-songwriter, whose main gig is with Death Cab for Cutie, probably the most prominent contemporary indie-pop band, was responding to a specific question about musical influences on the Postal Service—his collaboration with Jimmy Tamborello, of Dntel and Figurine fame. However, it is also a pretty good description of the music that Gibbard makes. It is even the sort of line one would expect to hear on the Postal Service’s new album, Give Up, which plays like a music...
Another bad teen movie, just with Asians
By Esther Sullivan / April 22, 2003
From the opening shot of Justin Lin’s new film, Better Luck Tomorrow, we know what we’re in for. The long line of cookie-cutter homes glistening in the California sunshine clues us in to the dormant angst that, according to the formula for a suburban coming-of-age drama, must eventually threaten this idyllic scene. When the next shot cuts to two Asian teenage boys casually sucking down cigarettes as they curse the “fucking heat,” we also know where the threat will originate. That the boys are Asian, along with the rest of the bored and angst-ridden teens in the cast, is all...
As linguistic tricks falter, so does Shackling Water
By Devin Cain / April 22, 2003
Adam Mansbach’s Shackling Water has received gushing praise from some of the country’s most respected critics, who are impressed with his attempts to infuse the novel with the rhythms of hip-hop and jazz. Yet, disappointingly enough, this musically tinged style disappears about a fifth of the way into the book, and is replaced by a more conventional idiom. The plot of Shackling Water is pretty standard coming-of-age fare. Latif, a saxophone prodigy from Boston, runs off to Harlem to listen to jazz-god Albert Van Horn. He lurks in the shadows of a midtown club, learning from the music and waiting...
Darkness clouds suburban teenage memories
By Brad Heffern / April 18, 2003
In the author’s note at the beginning of Lake Effect, Rich Cohen writes, “I was…after the spirit of a certain season and the thrill of a certain kind of friendship and what happens to such friendships when the afternoon runs into the evening.” The type he is referring to is that most fleeting of friendships; the ones that are so intense and powerful they cannot possibly keep their fervor. Cohen is the narrator of Lake Effect, which takes place in suburban Chicago in the ’80s. The book serves as a memoir of Cohen’s youth and a chronicle of his friendship...
Conductor, violinist save the day in grand fashion
By Peter Kupfer / April 18, 2003
The Kirov Orchestra of St. Petersburg and its director, Valery Gergiev, saved the day in remarkable fashion on Tuesday evening, April 8, at Symphony Center. The Rotterdam Philharmonic, originally scheduled to perform, had cancelled its entire American Tour last month, citing concern over the current international situation. This may, in the end, have been for the better. Gergiev, musical director of both orchestras, had just completed a North American tour with the Kirov. In these pressing times, Gergiev felt that music was more necessary than ever, and he was able to convince nearly the entire orchestra to fill in for...
A long drive for someone with nothing to think about
By Whet Moser / April 18, 2003
Don DeLillo is known as one of our greatest living novelists, but to call most of his works “novels” is to stretch the intention of the genre: they’re ideas with a plot and a cast. In his weird world of armchair semioticians, his creations pronounce rather than converse, their dialogue reading like a stylized reworking of the author’s inner monologue. Some of his works have more personality than others, and a few have legitimate characterization, but DeLilllo tends to live and die on the strength of his ideas. Thus, any reader of his works can expect some ratio of lively,...
Gunns swoop in like superheroes; Mandel rejoices
By David Bashwiner / April 18, 2003
Due to illness, soprano Susan Graham was unable to fulfill her engagement this past Friday night at Mandel Hall for one of a series of chamber music concerts sponsored by the University of Chicago Presents. Fortunately, baritone Nathan Gunn and his wife, pianist Julie Gunn, were able to fly in from New York on a day’s notice to fill in for Graham. The Gunns performed a single piece, the 20-part song cycle, composed by Franz Schubert in 1823, called Die Schoene Muellerin (The Fair Maid of the Mill). Nathan Gunn’s voice is bold and strong-not muscled, although perhaps not perfectly...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / April 18, 2003
Levity Mark Oliver Everett Remember that band the Eels? “Novocain for the Soul”? Is it all coming back now? The singer/songwriter for the Eels, Mark Oliver Everett (aka E), has made his first foray into the cinema world by writing and performing the score for the new Billy Bob Thornton movie Levity. In the film, Thornton plays a convicted murderer who is released after 20 years in prison and seeks redemption in the outside world. For obvious reasons, the soundtrack oscillates between somber, introspective songs and slightly upbeat songs. Interestingly, the instrumentation does not differ much from the Eels’ albums;...
Never Mind the Locals
By Loren Jan Wilson / April 18, 2003
Many people don’t know it, (or maybe they just don’t care) but there’s a lot of good music being made at the U of C and it’s time that you all expanded your minds and ears and took a listen. Keeping that in mind, I wanted to let you know about some upcoming Hyde Park-related shows that showcase the talents of the musicians next door. Show #1: WHPK Local Rock Show @ Reynolds Club South Lounge Friday, April 18 (tonight), 8:30 p.m., all ages, free show. Attend this show tonight, and your minds will be blown. It’s being organized by...
Richie Havens: still a road warrior after all these years
By Brad Heffern / April 18, 2003
Voices recently spoke with Richie Havens in anticipation of his April 25 show at the Old Town School of Folk Music. Havens, most famous for his performance at the original Woodstock, has kept at it, singing and performing for the last 30 years. When we sat down to talk, the loquacious Havens spoke about his new album, Wishing Well; his recent collaboration with Groove Armada; and what touring is like after 40 years. Voices: Why did you take off so much time in between albums? Havens: Basically because I’m on the road every weekend all year round. They book me...
This girl knows what she wants: her daddy
By Willa Paskin / April 15, 2003
If you are over the age of 15, and don?t hanker after girls of the same age, you might be wondering why on earth you would ever go see What a Girl Wants. Explicitly marketed to the recently invented ?tween? demographic, the movie, staring Amanda Bynes from that WB television show with Kelly from 90210, might be about as appealing to you as watching reruns of the Olsen twins? failed sitcom. I?ll confess, with no shame, to watching that show whenever I come across it in rerun on ABC Family, and maybe that means I have bad taste. Whatever. What...
Richie Havens: still a road warrior after all these years
By Brad Heffern / April 15, 2003
Brad Heffern Voices sun worshipper Voices recently spoke with Richie Havens in anticipation of his April 25 show at the Old Town School of Folk Music. Havens, most famous for his performance at the original Woodstock, has kept at it, singing and performing for the last 30 years. When we sat down to talk, the loquacious Havens spoke about his new album, Wishing Well; his recent collaboration with Groove Armada; and what touring is like after 40 years. Voices: Why did you take off so much time in between albums? Havens: Basically because I?m on the road every weekend all...
AFI changes record label without changing much else
By Jon Garrett / April 15, 2003
AFI are a strange sight. The musicians look like your typical, workaday So-Cal punks, but then there?s the lead singer, Davey Havok?a strikingly androgynous figure cloaked in gothic garb making it easy to mistake him for a member of Marilyn Manson?s entourage. But it?s the combination of their fierce punk roots and Havok?s otherworldly howl that set AFI apart on a pop landscape that?s become increasingly homogenous in recent years. The band imbues the immediacy of primitive punk with modern production touches?perfected by the likes of NIN, Tool, and Garbage. The band even managed to recruit Jerry Finn and Butch...
The staging of a dark past
By Andrew Marchesseault / April 15, 2003
Most students currently attending the University of Chicago, namely those who have taken at least one course in American history thus far in their academic careers, should be at least vaguely familiar with the name Emmett Till. For those of you who are left scratching your heads at the mention of his name, allow me to refresh your memories. In the summer of 1955, 14-year-old Till journeyed by bus from his home in the South Side of Chicago to see relatives in Mississippi. Days later, Till?s mutilated body was pulled from the Tallahatchie River, a bullet hole in the head...
Two tenors go wild in Hugo Wolf extravaganza
By Nicholas Betson / April 15, 2003
In honor of the 100th anniversary of the death of composer Hugo Wolf (1860-1903), Symphony Center recently brought in two of the world?s leading tenors?Thomas Hampson and Robert Holl?to perform two separate concerts of his songs. Biographically, Wolf shares much with the lied composers he sought to equal in his music: like Schubert, he died prematurely of syphilis and spent his final days, as did Schumann, in a Viennese asylum. He came of age in Vienna?then the music capital of the world?and became entangled in the fierce aesthetic debates that raged in the city?s periodicals. Upon arriving in Vienna, Wolf...
Richie Havens: still a road warrior after all these years
By Brad Heffern / April 15, 2003
Brad Heffern Voices sun worshipper Voices recently spoke with Richie Havens in anticipation of his April 25 show at the Old Town School of Folk Music. Havens, most famous for his performance at the original Woodstock, has kept at it, singing and performing for the last 30 years. When we sat down to talk, the loquacious Havens spoke about his new album, Wishing Well; his recent collaboration with Groove Armada; and what touring is like after 40 years. Voices: Why did you take off so much time in between albums? Havens: Basically because I?m on the road every weekend all...
AFI changes record label without changing much else
By Jon Garrett / April 15, 2003
AFI are a strange sight. The musicians look like your typical, workaday So-Cal punks, but then there?s the lead singer, Davey Havok?a strikingly androgynous figure cloaked in gothic garb making it easy to mistake him for a member of Marilyn Manson?s entourage. But it?s the combination of their fierce punk roots and Havok?s otherworldly howl that set AFI apart on a pop landscape that?s become increasingly homogenous in recent years. The band imbues the immediacy of primitive punk with modern production touches?perfected by the likes of NIN, Tool, and Garbage. The band even managed to recruit Jerry Finn and Butch...
More grime than glitter makes The Good Thief fall flat
By Ben Adams / April 4, 2003
It’s been almost 50 years since Jean-Pierre Melville wrote, directed, and put out his defining heist movie, Bob Le Flambeur. In its era, Bob was dashing and even fairly influential; Lewis Milestone’s rat-pack edition of Ocean’s Eleven was not so much the original to Steven Soderbergh’s remake as it was an echo of Melville’s initial cinematic shout. Neil Jordan must have imagined something spectacular for himself, putting out his own version after all three of these others had managed to find another angle. Whereas Melville drew up his title character as a dapper criminal with a heart of gold, Jordan...
Uniting the world…one dope beat at a time
By Tim Michaels / April 4, 2003
In the film One Perfect Day, the main character states that clubs “are the new cathedrals.” There is no better proof of this statement than Paul Van Dyk’s new CD/DVD Global. Included in this two-disc set is a CD of 13 re-recorded tracks of Van Dyk’s most popular works of the last decade, a 74-minute film featuring the newly released tracks, extra footage of Van Dyk interviews, and trailers for the films One Perfect Day and Zurdo, whose music was composed by Van Dyk. The film surveys not only Van Dyk’s musical career, but also his participation in the global...
Hearing it twice doesn’t make it nice: MusicNOW fails
By Online Editor / April 4, 2003
The concert which took place the evening of March 19 at Symphony Center confirmed what apparently all but 400 of the concert-going public anticipated; the program was mediocre. Part of the MusicNOW series, which presents works by today’s composers in performances by Chicago Symphony musicians, the concert attempted to educate as it entertained its audience. To that end, all but the last work on the program were performed twice; after the first play-through the composer would say a few words about his work, and then the performance would be repeated. The format provided a rare opportunity for both listener and...
A spoonful of Texas-sized indie rock makes the hipsters happy
By Online Editor / April 4, 2003
If the March 30 show at the Abbey Pub is any indication, the Austin, Texas-based band Spoon likes to rock the shit out of the stage…for about an hour. Headlining a triple bill that included Brooklyn band Palomar and ex-Archers of Loaf frontman Eric Bachmann’s new project Crooked Fingers, they played to a capacity crowd at the intimate venue. Taking the stage after a feisty set by Palomar and a passionate, albeit slightly lengthy set by the Fingers, Spoon entered in typical dapper fashion. After opening with a hearty version of “All the Pretty Girls Go to the City,” frontman...
Hitman torn between life of dancing and life of crime
By Willa Paskin / April 4, 2003
Hundreds of years from now, when scholars look back upon the films of the early third millennium for insights into the structure and workings of a by-then-obscure society, they will conclude that one of its most popular professions was… being a hitman? Maybe this is just wishful thinking on my part, but I believe that the slew of hitmen that have appeared in movies good, bad and in between, such as Grosse Pointe Blank, The Whole Nine Yards, The Professional, The Mexican, Analyze This, and Pulp Fiction, are not an accurate representation of reality. There are not that many hitmen....
When prog rock goes pop
By Jon Garrett / April 4, 2003
Let’s not mince words here, Cave In was a prog band. Most self-respecting bands don’t like that term, so they’ll attempt to dress it up in any number of ways. You’ve got your prog-metal, like Tool. Or your prog-punk. Vaguely proggy. In this day and age, a straight-up prog band is asking for trouble, so you’ll almost never see one fess up in print. The funny thing is that Cave In had nothing to be ashamed of. They were a very good prog band-a rare group whose greatness seemed directly proportional to their song lengths. Hence, their shining moment, Jupiter,...
Looking back on the counterculture with ideals intact
By Joseph N. Liss / April 4, 2003
The Sixties ought to be of great interest to us, if only because the decade’s peculiar events defined the lives of our parents, and might thereby help us understand what the hell the problem is with Mom and Dad. Their turbulent generation was born in America’s swell and cocksure post-war years. Having grown up under the glooms of the Cold War, McCarthyism, and a stifling sense of conformity, should not their years of cutting loose have defined their adult lives and continued to make a more free and loving nation? Shouldn’t rock and roll have lived forever, and shouldn’t the...
Of DeLoreans and lipstick
By Yoshi Salaverry / March 11, 2003
Gimme that sweet that nasty that gushy stuff. Ungh. Oh, girls, girls, girls…this one’s for you. Drew Daniel, half of West Coast cut-up team Matmos, wants you to wear copious amounts of mascara, fishnet stockings, your stiletto heels, and freak it like it’s 1986. For me, this album, which he recorded as the Soft Pink Truth, really came from left field. Daniel’s previous releases with Martin Schmidt leaned much more toward the experimental end of the electronic music spectrum. Matmos gained a certain degree of notoriety when A Chance to Cut is a Chance to Cure was released because all...
Elvrum captures the cold
By Nasia Anam / March 11, 2003
I find myself unable to do a normal, qualitative analysis of the Microphones’ latest LP, Mount Eerie. I can only convey to you what it sounds like in visual metaphors, which (unlike some metaphors) won’t be somehow “truer” than the actual thing I’m describing. Basically, I can tell you nothing about this album that will come near (or even close to near) to listening to it. But I will try my damnedest, so bear with me, and here goes. The closest sensation to listening to Mount Eerie is taking a walk outside right around now, when winter is at its...
Music: Voices Shortcuts
By Yoshi Salaverry / March 11, 2003
M. Ward Transfiguration of Vincent Merge Records There’s a burning question on your mind. That question is “Do I need another pastoral folk/earthy blues album?” This question, of course, presupposes that you already own some pastoral folk/earthy blues and probably like it, too. Assuming that you’re a constituent of this group, then, I suggest that you purchase/illegally acquire this album by M. Ward, whose knack for writing simple, melancholy tunes is truly uncanny. On this slow, sad album, Ward uses muted violin samples, cricket chirps, and bird warbles, as well as more conventional instrumentation and his own lovely voice to...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / March 11, 2003
It is not entirely clear who broke into the train garage reserved exclusively for lazy comedians and stole the locomotive labelled “Mocking the French.” But, whoever it was, they have since pointed that train on a downhill set of rails, making it, effectively, a runaway. Anti-French sentiment seems to be reaching levels previously only reserved for Ishtar. It was clear something was getting a bit out of control when even Andy Rooney got into the mess, by arguing that France has not “earned” the right “to oppose President Bush’s plans to attack Iraq.” Rooney, as the Daniel O’Connell of France,...
Dear Diary: The Interview
By Pete Beatty / March 11, 2003
This is an end of Dear Diary, at least in some liminal sense. I’m not going to be EIC as of Friday morning, so if I ever feel like doing something really dumb in this space, there would theoretically be someone who could say no to that idea. So this is the end of the unsupervised Dear Diary. On that note, being lazy yet still wanting to write something, I decided to interview myself. I didn’t get fired or anything, incidentally. “The Interview” Moderator: Hi. Pete (in italics): How’s it going? Pretty good. Great. Let’s get started here. Sure. Let’s...
(Emo + corn)good = Cursive
By Terry Hollandaise / March 11, 2003
The Ugly Organ is the fourth full-length from Omaha’s Cursive, and the first LP by the band since 2000’s Domestica, in which Cursive shows what happens when talented emo bands actually write songs. What happens? Magic! The magic of Domestica came from all over the place. Some of it was Pavement-by-way-of-DC-sounding angular guitar pop. Other magic came courtesy of loud, ugly guitars, the kind that actual rock bands used to play. Then there was the bit about them actually being an emo band, of course; that whole thing about Domestica being a concept record about lead singer Tim Kasher’s real-life...
Of DeLoreans and lipstick
By Yoshi Salaverry / March 11, 2003
Gimme that sweet that nasty that gushy stuff. Ungh. Oh, girls, girls, girls…this one’s for you. Drew Daniel, half of West Coast cut-up team Matmos, wants you to wear copious amounts of mascara, fishnet stockings, your stiletto heels, and freak it like it’s 1986. For me, this album, which he recorded as the Soft Pink Truth, really came from left field. Daniel’s previous releases with Martin Schmidt leaned much more toward the experimental end of the electronic music spectrum. Matmos gained a certain degree of notoriety when A Chance to Cut is a Chance to Cure was released because all...
Elvrum captures the cold
By Nasia Anam / March 11, 2003
I find myself unable to do a normal, qualitative analysis of the Microphones’ latest LP, Mount Eerie. I can only convey to you what it sounds like in visual metaphors, which (unlike some metaphors) won’t be somehow “truer” than the actual thing I’m describing. Basically, I can tell you nothing about this album that will come near (or even close to near) to listening to it. But I will try my damnedest, so bear with me, and here goes. The closest sensation to listening to Mount Eerie is taking a walk outside right around now, when winter is at its...
Music: Voices Shortcuts
By Yoshi Salaverry / March 11, 2003
M. Ward Transfiguration of Vincent Merge Records There’s a burning question on your mind. That question is “Do I need another pastoral folk/earthy blues album?” This question, of course, presupposes that you already own some pastoral folk/earthy blues and probably like it, too. Assuming that you’re a constituent of this group, then, I suggest that you purchase/illegally acquire this album by M. Ward, whose knack for writing simple, melancholy tunes is truly uncanny. On this slow, sad album, Ward uses muted violin samples, cricket chirps, and bird warbles, as well as more conventional instrumentation and his own lovely voice to...
Exploring sonic terrain
By Yoshi Salaverry / March 11, 2003
The title of the first CD of Thomas Köner’s Zyklop translates as “a sonorous landscape” or “a landscape of sound,” and he says that his artistic intent is to provide a sonic record of a space. Placed as I am in a position of evaluative authority (albeit slight), I assert that he has totally succeeded. Ah, auteurism is très passé, but every now and then I yearn for the reinstitution of the category of “genius”–cases remarkably like these, in fact. If grocery lists documenting all the instruments or samples used to record an album enthrall you, then allow me to...
Anta Baka
By Yoshi Salaverry / March 11, 2003
Towards an Analysis of Video Gaming qua Social Interaction With special guest Joseph N. Liss What can juvenility and vulgarism mean on the University of Chicago campus? Culture is culture, and contemporaneity is important, and personally we find Sony and Nintendo about as useful to consumers of our time as Emile Durkheim. Therefore, we saw it fit to publish a survey of video gaming on campus. If intellectualism and mindless pleasures can go together anywhere, it would be here. Therefore, to help you digest your Kant with your Contra, we present our own Critique of Aesthetic Judgment for the phenomenon...
Irreversible: A torturous drama of gratuitous violence
By Ben Adams / March 11, 2003
A fat, naked man–an ex-convict–is sitting in a sweaty apartment, staring blankly at a dark-haired friend, clothed, but, like his companion, washed-up and inert. The fat man breathes out the words in a husky, seasoned voice. Le temps detruit tout. Time destroys everything. They hear the sounds of sirens and car doors slamming, shouts in the street. Qu’est-ce que c’est ça? C’est rien. It’s nothing. How could it be anything? Le temps detruit tout. What should we think of the young man, viciously insulted by police and medical workers, as he is carted away, barely conscious, from the basement of...
Czech out Vondracek, yo!
By John Zhu / March 11, 2003
On a Friday evening 50 years, almost to the day, since Stalin and Prokofiev’s death, Ashkenazy and child prodigy Vondracek appropriately began this concert–Shostakovich’s Chamber Symphony and Prokofiev’s Piano Concerto in D flat major–with a tribute to both. The Chamber Symphony, with its less than subtle knock at the KGB, is a mournful reaction to the horrors of World War II. However, the performance was a bit anxious from the start. In the first movement an andante tempo along with weak cello and bass entrances throughout undermined the gravity of the largo. In a rather thin rendition in general, the...
Queen and Steve get jiggy
By Eric Park / March 7, 2003
What would happen if one were to put a sassy, big-mamma soul sistah from South Central with one of those uptight alpha-male suburbanites in the same movie? That may be the operative question concerning the executives who greenlighted Bringing Down the House, with the hope of hitting the jackpot on another culture-clash comedy. But for the rest of us, there is the prospective answer that maybe despite their differences, the queen of the ghettoes and the king of the lily-white suburbs can magically unite through the parade procession that is often known as filmmaking. The comedy, however, has just enough...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / March 7, 2003
David Cross Shut Up You Fucking Baby Sub Pop Records David Cross, known to many of you as one-half of the creative team behind Mr. Show, and known no doubt to a great many more of you from roles in the terrible movies Scary Movie 2 and Men in Black II, recorded this album of live stand-up comedy during a tour of rock clubs in the spring and summer of last year (purposefully forsaking this nation’s god-forsaken archipelago of Funny Bone’s and Ha-Ha Hut’s in the process). I can’t decide whether doing a stand-up comedy tour or releasing a comedy...
Queen and Steve get jiggy
By Eric Park / March 7, 2003
What would happen if one were to put a sassy, big-mamma soul sistah from South Central with one of those uptight alpha-male suburbanites in the same movie? That may be the operative question concerning the executives who greenlighted Bringing Down the House, with the hope of hitting the jackpot on another culture-clash comedy. But for the rest of us, there is the prospective answer that maybe despite their differences, the queen of the ghettoes and the king of the lily-white suburbs can magically unite through the parade procession that is often known as filmmaking. The comedy, however, has just enough...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / March 7, 2003
David Cross Shut Up You Fucking Baby Sub Pop Records David Cross, known to many of you as one-half of the creative team behind Mr. Show, and known no doubt to a great many more of you from roles in the terrible movies Scary Movie 2 and Men in Black II, recorded this album of live stand-up comedy during a tour of rock clubs in the spring and summer of last year (purposefully forsaking this nation’s god-forsaken archipelago of Funny Bone’s and Ha-Ha Hut’s in the process). I can’t decide whether doing a stand-up comedy tour or releasing a comedy...
Spider: A mind wracked by confusion and emotional pain
By Willa Paskin / March 7, 2003
Crazy people are a popular movie topic. Of the many films that deal with this subject, most, the good and the bad, are concerned in some capacity with how these individuals come to function in more socially acceptable ways. These films (such as A Beautiful Mind, Shine, Girl Interrupted) track a progression; we may begin in the depths of insanity but our troubled protagonist makes connections with others, learns how to do the little things, and takes general steps towards a more normal mental health. Though Spider certainly qualifies as a movie about the insane, it is not a film...
eight blackbird push boundaries of performance
By Jesse Ma / March 4, 2003
Last Sunday at Mandel Hall, eighth blackbird, a sextet in-residence at the University of Chicago, proved that their music goes well beyond just the sound and into the realm of movement. The concert, which could have been just about the music, revolved to a large extent around the characteristic and brilliant choreography in each of the sixteen movements the sextet played, juxtaposed with the continuous musical action in each piece. The interaction between the performers focused the audience on the dominating theme at any given point in music: when the flutist, Molly Alicia Barth, and clarinet player, Michael J. Maccaferri,...
In Russian Ark, technical wonders outshine plot blunders
By Tom Zimpleman / March 4, 2003
Short takes and quick cuts are a film school trick, useful for fledgling directors and recently promoted music video hacks who want to underline their ability to visualize a scene from every conceivable angle in their mind’s eye. (Plus, they think that audiences get bored if they go too long without seeing an edit.) Long takes are also a film school trick, not only because a number of great directors preferred the long take–Renoir used it a lot, and Hitchcock tried to shoot Rope in one take but kept running out of film–but also because movie sets are subject to...
Of Montreal reimagined in goofy skits
By Georgi Johnston / March 4, 2003
At Schuba’s last Friday, those expecting a normal rock show were in for some serious disappointment when A Pollinaire Rave took the stage, but what do you expect from a group with a name like that? As the flyer claims, A Pollinaire Rave truly is “Music as Art.” Before the show began I had the pleasure of interviewing the mastermind of this project, Kevin Barnes. Normally, Kevin is the lead singer of the Atlanta indie pop group Of Montreal. Of Montreal has been pleasing listeners since 1997 with its playfully theatrical music. A Pollinaire Rave could easily be seen as...
Cronenberg on subjectivity and nature versus nurture
By Willa Paskin / March 4, 2003
Chances are, if you’ve seen a David Cronenberg film you remember it. Known for weird, sci-fi meets biological psychodrama films (to create a whole new taxonomy of genre), Cronenberg’s movies have a very distinctive flair. His past movies include The Fly, Videodrome, Crash, and eXistenZ, all of which have dealt in some capacity with themes of the human body and perception. Cronenberg’s latest film, Spider, the story of a schizophrenic man grappling with memories of his past, struggles with these same issues, though without the goopy bugs or kinky car crashes of his earlier works. Any hopes that Cronenberg was...
Hot Hot Heat add eight new “hots” and “lava” to name
By Jon Garrett / February 28, 2003
Just when the Dismemberment Plan broke up and you thought pop had been nudged out of the indie world for good, along comes Hot Hot Heat–a ragtag Canadian outfit signed to a label known more for garage clamor than pop bliss. Sub Pop released the band’s Knock Knock Knock EP followed by a second album, Make Up the Breakdown, late last year to rave reviews from those who bothered to listen to their strange pop confection. Seamlessly blending the cool and the terminally unhip, Hot Hot Heat juggles The Cars, Prince, and the jittery post-punk of Gang of Four and...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / February 28, 2003
The Caribbean History’s First Know-It-All Tomlab records The Caribbean is a band who has mastered the fine art of creating a lovely tune. On their third album, this group from D.C. takes their time with each of the 12 songs, letting the guitar, drums, bass and keyboards just mingle together. Add to this traditional arrangement a splash of found sound, sampling, and electronic clatter, and you have the makings of a dozen quirky, laid-back pop gems. An obvious comparison can be made between the Caribbean and indie-pop darlings Death Cab for Cutie, one that goes beyond their shared affinity for...
Twenty-something love gets patient in All the Real Girls
By Willa Paskin / February 28, 2003
All the Real Girls is the story of a boy and girl who fall in love and then get all confused about it. So if you think you’ve seen this movie before, you’re right in the sense that it’s a familiar and oft-filmed topic, but you definitely have not seen a movie tackle this subject so satisfyingly in quite a while. This film reminds you why people keep returning to the clichéd concept of first love; if you get it right, you have a damn good movie on your hands. All the Real Girls is successful because David Gordon Green,...
Slick production and solid acting propel Molière play
By Greg Beam / February 28, 2003
Ann Marie Lonsdale has been called, on occasion, the Molière of University Theater. She lives up to this title in her pleasantly voguish production of The Misanthrope. This play is a touch different for those who know Molière for his farce. It is certainly rich with comedy, but the overall tone is rather serious, and the plot builds on compelling character interactions and surprisingly entertaining discursive interludes rather than sudden, sweeping shifts. Alceste (Sean Michael Henry) is disgusted by the whole world of men and is not at all hesitant to voice his feelings, much to the dismay of his...
Argh! There be yuppie [jerks] on Yonder Mountain
By Gabriel E.S. Lifton-Zoline / February 28, 2003
Listen: this is what I mean. There is a happy place, this place is warmer than here, but not too hot (or humid at all really). This place is filled with many yuppies in SUVs, hot yuppie girls in North Face coats/vests, hot yuppie girls with clogs on their hot yuppie feet, and lots of semi-dirty yuppie kids who listen to this music. The music? Well it’s the Yonder Mountain String Band, and they will take you to this place. Now this place has a name. The name? Nederland, Colorado. A supposed hippy enclave with at least 8,000 yurts perched...
Oh My… how wonderful!
By Yoshi Salaverry / February 25, 2003
Can I credit Devendra Banhart with the invention of a new musical genre? Because I really cannot imagine any points of comparison with his album, which might be best categorized (although the typical music-journalist project of classification is itself rendered useless by Oh Me Oh My…) as surreal folk. Yes, his guitar is reminiscent of Nick Drake’s on Pink Moon; yes, his distinct voice, now shrill warble, now low croak, has its predecessors; but I cannot think of another album which has so deftly expanded upon the possibilities of its genre “container” as Oh Me Oh My…. Without any technical...
A night of blues implosion
By Jon Garrett / February 25, 2003
The Hideout can be a strange place around midnight. Located off North Avenue, tucked away in a dark alley with nothing but a “COLD BEER” sign to attest to its existence, the venue teems with assorted characters. You’ve got your retired bikers, all faded leather and facial hair; the fashion-challenged punks, covered in dyes and tattered clothing; and of course the standard-issue indie crowd, bedhead hairdos and zip-up sweatshirts galore. This was the throng assembled to see 20 Miles, an offshoot of Jon Spencer Blues Explosion. On paper, the group’s core members are the Bauer brothers, with Judah handling the...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / February 25, 2003
Pete couldn’t make it tonight, so we did what we could with his notes. This is specifically not a case of Refrigerator Dear Diary, or Make Your Own Dear Diary. This is just an emergency kit, really. Nothing like the real thing of course. We cut some corners, but whatever. Just imagine there’s a picture of a cat with no ears or Kelly Holcomb or something.If anybody sees Pete, incidentally, call the office. As always, this one goes out to a young man who thinks he hasn’t seen anything good today. [To the reader: Today’s Dear Diary doesn’t really transcend...
Pacifica String Quartet gives a democratic performance
By Nicholas Betson / February 25, 2003
Before coming to the University of Chicago, and long before I even bothered to ask why, the Carter Quartets were among my favorite pieces. Since then, I have not listened to them much (too busy studying, perhaps…), and thus hearing the Pacifica Quartet perform all of them in one night was at once an opportunity to reconnect with this repertoire but also a chance to think about how my own listening has changed. It would be tempting to say this feeling was thematized throughout the evening’s works–in many ways, all of Carter’s works (not just the String Quartets) play out...
Nazis, the Bourgeois, Haydn and Beethoven hang out
By Christian Kraus / February 25, 2003
It was, perhaps, the archetypically bourgeois moment. Before the world-famous Alban Berg Quartet embarked upon performing Joseph Haydn’s C major string quartet–itself famous for presenting, as its second movement, variations upon a theme which was later to become the German national anthem–violist Thomas Kakuska stood to address the Chicago audience. He briefly asserted that he and his colleagues had chosen to play the quartet “only because it is a wonderful piece,” its second movement being “wonderful variations on a wonderful theme.” Commenting on the disrepute that this theme has fallen into–having, after all, served as Adolf Hitler’s national anthem in...
Hollywood delivers thrill-seeking death penalty vehicle
By Willa Paskin / February 21, 2003
The Life of David Gale is a good movie that mistakenly believes it is a thriller. It is really a shame since it possesses some of the qualities of an excellent movie: a good story, complex themes, great actors, and a compelling sensibility. Yet what it lacks is something a great movie really can’t go without, and that’s bravery. This is a film about moral issues and while that may be a hard sell, it’s the only thing remotely unique about this well-crafted film. Instead of embracing the ethical dilemmas at its core, the film focuses on a totally entertaining...
Voices Music: Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / February 21, 2003
Cat Power You Are Free Matador records If I had to propose a theory as to why self-consciously primitive artists either rule or suck, it would be, maybe appropriately, a basic one: the good ones (or, hell, at least the ones that I’m always coming back to) are good storytellers. No, great storytellers. Dylan’s “Lily, Rosemary, and the Jack of Hearts” is just the same chords repeated for eight minutes–no solos, no variation. But it’s a full-fledged story with multiple characters, and a gripping one at that. Liz Phair, for all the absurd Rolling Stones references people impose on her,...
Not worth 50 Cent
By Joe Hanson / February 21, 2003
If nothing else, 50 Cent deserves a prize for best hype. The story about him being shot nine times is almost legendary; the multiple mixtapes released by him and his crew G-Unit have become infamous; and Dr. Dre and Eminem paid him a cool million to sign with Interscope/Aftermath/Shady records (and yes, in hip-hop everyone has to have his own record label). Now, with the infectious “In Da Club” dominating the radio, everyone and his mother is talking about 50 Cent. Hell, even his old independent album Guess Who’s Back has slowly crept up the Billboard charts over the last...
Rubato get romantic (so to speak)
By Yoshi Salaverry / February 21, 2003
Mille Plateaux has always paired theory with practice, writing artistic manifestoes that claim intellectual allegiances with the likes of Gille Deleuze and Felix Guattari, while releasing audacious electronic music that attempts to shatter every container that tries to hold it. Just visit their Web site and you will see how seriously they take themselves. Of the artists in their roster, the most vocal in his revolutionary sentiments is critical-theory-spouting Terre Thaemlitz. I am thinking specifically of his last album for Mille Plateaux, on which he explained the presence of a Billy Joel sample by claiming his intent was to incite...
Eighth Blackbird: Our classical anarchists
By Deirdre Kelly / February 21, 2003
What defines classical music? A style, a form, a tonal language? No, the term encompasses such a diversity of these terms that it is impossible to derive a coherent definition from them. The instruments which play it? The consistency of the coincidence of certain instruments with classical music makes them a reliable identifying marker, but they do not define it. What defines classical music is its concept of the composer. What other category of music so segregates its conveyers from its creators, while continuing to revere the latter? The relationship between the composer, the performer and the music more reliably...
Aberdeen’s California sun
By Tom Zimpleman / February 18, 2003
Tom Zimpleman Voices Representing Iowa Aberdeen really likes the Jesus & Mary Chain. I know this because the promotional material mentions that the band’s founding couple, John and Beth (no last names provided), moved to Los Angeles in the hopes of someday seeing the band in concert. I also know this because I’ve heard the ending of “Sink or Float,” the second song on their debut album, Homesick and Happy to be Here. It closes with a white noise explosion and spiky guitar riff that’s very close in spirit to the work of the Reid brothers. That’s not to say...
Glitch learns how to dance
By Yoshi Salaverry / February 18, 2003
“Glitch,” as a genre, or more accurately as an aesthetic, was originally called glitch because visionary artists like Oval and Pole incorporated digital errors (glitches) into their electronic compositions. While electronic music in the early 90’s was defined by artists like the Orb, who followed the sound of clubs’ chill out rooms to its inevitable conclusion (drifting, sample-laden ambience), and the Artificial Intelligence gang (Autechre, Speedy J, Aphex Twin), glitch was the vanguard of electronic music at the end of the decade. Whereas Autechre flexed their sampler until it excreted the strangest noises they could find, and Aphex had (in...
Flautists take swift action for belated French pianist
By Anne Lovering Rounds / February 18, 2003
On the night of Valentine’s Day, the director of University of Chicago Presents had it in her power to ruin every single date in Mandel Hall. At 8:10 p.m., she walked onstage to announce that Hélène Grimaud, billed as the “fiery” pianist who would accompany flautist Emmanuel Pahud in the works of Mozart, Schumann, and Brahms, had only then arrived at O’Hare and was waiting for her luggage. But she did not. After the announcement, Emmanuel Pahud walked onto the stage and gave the audience what could be described in one of four ways as a: (a) solo recital; (b)...
Aberdeen’s California sun
By Tom Zimpleman / February 18, 2003
Tom Zimpleman Voices Representing Iowa Aberdeen really likes the Jesus & Mary Chain. I know this because the promotional material mentions that the band’s founding couple, John and Beth (no last names provided), moved to Los Angeles in the hopes of someday seeing the band in concert. I also know this because I’ve heard the ending of “Sink or Float,” the second song on their debut album, Homesick and Happy to be Here. It closes with a white noise explosion and spiky guitar riff that’s very close in spirit to the work of the Reid brothers. That’s not to say...
Glitch learns how to dance
By Yoshi Salaverry / February 18, 2003
“Glitch,” as a genre, or more accurately as an aesthetic, was originally called glitch because visionary artists like Oval and Pole incorporated digital errors (glitches) into their electronic compositions. While electronic music in the early 90’s was defined by artists like the Orb, who followed the sound of clubs’ chill out rooms to its inevitable conclusion (drifting, sample-laden ambience), and the Artificial Intelligence gang (Autechre, Speedy J, Aphex Twin), glitch was the vanguard of electronic music at the end of the decade. Whereas Autechre flexed their sampler until it excreted the strangest noises they could find, and Aphex had (in...
Kill Obscurity
By The Maroon Staff / February 14, 2003
Instead of spending another Valentine’s Day at home feeling sorry for yourself and falling asleep to a pint of Ben and Jerry’s and Laverne and Shirley reruns (as I usually do) why not go out and have a little fun? Remember, not having a significant other around to cramp your style on V-Day can be a good thing. This Friday go downtown and live up the single life with some other fellow free spirits. #1: Who needs roses and chocolates when you can have beer! For the genuine anti-Valentine’s Day-ers head over to the plush but low-key Schoolyard Tavern and...
Voices Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / February 14, 2003
Kings of Leon Holy Roller Novocaine RCA Records Well, the first wave of garage bands–the Hives, the Strokes, the Vines–didn’t quite live up to the colossal sales expectations, but, as is usually the case in the music business, no one has the time to shed a tear. Already, there is a second generation of garage groups, but where their forebears emphasized ’70s punk, the new class draws inspiration from more eclectic sources. Groups like the Sun and the Thrills seem to have spent just as much time warming to Cheap Trick and classic soul records, respectively. Meanwhile, Kings of Leon,...
Top 5 Love Songs of All Time
By Whet Moser / February 14, 2003
In recent history, this list would have been five different takes on Palace Music’s “Valentine’s Day” (“It’s Valentine’s Day / And I’m catatonic”) and a make-your-own-Faith-Hill-voodoo-doll. Circumstances change, however, and this list features three unabashedly sappy songs, and I feel no shame in this, nor do I feel any shame in admitting that I was forced to cut Toni Braxton’s “Another Sad Love Song” due only to space considerations. But there’s a dark-horse nominee and a compromise candidate because forsaking one’s own bleak romantic past saps half the fun out of the day. “From a Buick 6,” Bob Dylan Maybe...
Our rowdy, raucous Youth
By John Bowser / February 14, 2003
I still wonder how this production so successfully replicated the condition of my apartment on stage. This is Our Youth, a play by Kenneth Lonergan, directed by second-year Garth Johnston, takes place in a 20-something boy’s one-room Upper West Side trash can–his apartment. The amazingly realistic condition of the stage is only one small part of making you forget that you’re watching theater, rather than the real life of “those kids I knew in high school.” The play, which tells the story of three kids from New York City in their early twenties, begins as Warren (played by Paul Dichter)...
Quartet plays Cage, coughs
By Jessie Harris / February 14, 2003
Note: The author is currently taking Music 104. His review was selected for publication by the members of that class. The Zehetmair Quartet–four friends turned professional ensemble–made its Chicago debut Friday, Janurary 31 at Mandel Hall with a diverse program: Schumann’s String Quartet No. 1 in A minor, Cage’s String Quartet in Four Parts, and Bartok’s String Quartet No. 5. Thomas Zehetmair, first violin, disabused the audience of the notion that he and the other members, Matthias Metzger (violin), Ruth Killius (viola), and Françoise Groben (cello), would be playing the performance from memory that night, reminding the crowd that everyone,...
Devendra Banhart: Folk music for the hyperactive
By The Maroon Staff / February 14, 2003
Alex Mahler Voices Contributor People are talking about Devendra Banhart, and not without reason. At the age of 22 he’s already appeared in Rolling Stone in his underwear. You might be thinking that a number of people have accomplished this, but perhaps only in this case is such an achievement due to natural musical talent rather than some plastic good looks. Over the span of a couple months, Banhart’s debut album, Oh Me Oh My… has created a storm of critical attention proclaiming him a prodigy who is creating some of the freshest and most distinct new music. Love it...
Pianist Uchida interprets alliterative trio of composers
By Christian Kraus / February 14, 2003
What is appealing about fables is, in part, that in them animals begin to speak. Before one recognizes that what they are speaking of is really us, as human beings, and our peculiar concerns, idiosyncrasies, and traits of character, one may well be enchanted at seeing humanity’s formerly mute companions acquire a voice of their own, leaving behind their linguistic passivity, their perennial being-spoken-to and being-spoken-about, making themselves heard in a world in which only man speaks and only man’s will counts. The hope is, one might say, that such talking animals could release us out of our fatally self-referential...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / February 14, 2003
WE ARE back with an all-new métier with which one might use the cow’s head to navigate this bitch. First, some bad stand-up comedy. Ah, crap, the producer is giving me the speed-it-up sign. First, some trite observations: o The weather here in the winter is terrible! I did not see this coming at all. o Girls are crazy! Sometimes you hurt people you love! o Pots on the stove are capable of burning your hand! o I love my pets! o LeBron James is only 18. He’ll be a millionaire next year! I’m not a millionaire! Amateur athletes sometimes...
Shanghai Knights: Brits get kung-powed!
By Nick Kolakowski / February 7, 2003
I like kung-fu flicks as much as the next red-blooded male, but something really needs to be done about the American ones. They lack that chain-reaction energy as each fight escalates into an insane physical poetry. Shanghai Knights is no different, but it has the affability of its leads to balance things out. Ultimately, it’s a very fun movie. As with most fun movies, the plot tends to be secondary. Jackie Chan’s character, Chon Wang, is a sheriff in a 19th-century western town. As the film opens, he learns that his father, keeper of the Imperial Seal in Beijing, has...
New campus play a Gift
By Andrew Lamb / February 7, 2003
The American premier of British playwright Tom Lister’s play The Gift will be staged this weekend in the First Floor Theater. A significantly stylish hipster crowd will definitely enjoy this mélange of pop culture references, slapstick comedy, and alcohol-soaked bantering. “What I liked most about this play was the sense of paranoia that everyone has, and the extent to which they do or do not give in to that paranoia,” said director Jared Ranere, a fourth-year in the College. Ranere met the playwright Tom Lister while studying abroad in Bologna. While assistant directing a show that Lister was directing, he...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / February 7, 2003
The rapid rate of change in terms of decrepitude in my corpus brought on by accelerating senescence coupled with a fear from a weak-kneed editorial staff at the Maroon (thankfully made up enfuckingtirely of lame ducks) has reduced this, this most sharpest sharp lancet of pre-avant-pop criticism of all time to a rather impotent biweekly trifle. This column was my baby, understand, and now she is only half a baby. Yet she is also like a hot, young daughter run off to college–I no longer have to make certain that she’s in by eight every Saturday night; I am content...
Kill Obscurity
By The Maroon Staff / February 7, 2003
If you’re one of the few people at the U of C who actually goes out on first dates, then we at Carbon Copy have a few suggestions for you. We know there are a zillion great date ideas, but we’re cheap and so are our suggestions. It’s always a good idea to have some sort of activity on first dates because if you realize within the first 15 minutes that you don’t want to talk to this person that much, you have an excuse not to. Also, if you don’t know each other that well then activities give you...
New Loose Fur lacks luster
By Tom Zimpleman / February 7, 2003
In a cavern somewhere near the center of the Earth, the barons of the Chicago music scene congregated to record an album. Jeff Tweedy and Jim O’Rourke played guitar and bass, and sang, Glenn Kotche played the drums, and, word has it, Jesus Christ himself showed up to sit in on keyboards for a few tracks. Roughly half of that, of course, is a joke. I don’t know where this album was recorded but my guess is that it was a studio up on the North Side, and that the rumors of a divine presence are restricted only to the...
Shanghai Knights: Brits get kung-powed!
By Nick Kolakowski / February 7, 2003
I like kung-fu flicks as much as the next red-blooded male, but something really needs to be done about the American ones. They lack that chain-reaction energy as each fight escalates into an insane physical poetry. Shanghai Knights is no different, but it has the affability of its leads to balance things out. Ultimately, it’s a very fun movie. As with most fun movies, the plot tends to be secondary. Jackie Chan’s character, Chon Wang, is a sheriff in a 19th-century western town. As the film opens, he learns that his father, keeper of the Imperial Seal in Beijing, has...
Shuttle 358 blasts off
By Yoshi Salaverry / February 7, 2003
When I first heard the title of Dan Abrams’s new album, his third record under the name Shuttle 358, I immediately thought of “Wildlife Analysis,” off of Boards of Canada’s seminal Music Has the Right to Children. That track was an ethereal opening to a dreamy album that utilized analog synthesizers and samplers to create a beautifully “organic” sound. Understanding Wildlife makes the same implicit claim, both in its title, and in tracks called “Finch,” “Burma,” and “My Backyard.” Nowhere to be found are titles of the Autechre/Aphex Twin variety, like “Liccflii” and “Kladfvgbung Micshk.” And Abrams’s promise, if it...
Andreas Scholl: Holier-than-thou Chicago debut glorious
By Christian Kraus / February 4, 2003
In some of his more self-important moments, Sigmund Freud liked to think of psychoanalysis as having dealt the final blow to man’s perennial self-importance. Copernicus had terminated the lease of humanity’s dwelling-place at the center of the universe. Darwin had stroppily destroyed the carefully constructed hierarchy of God’s creation. And now Freud came along, worldhistorical parvenu, and decentered the human being even from its own mind by excavating the irrational foundations of Reason. It remains open to question whether we have sufficiently appreciated the profundity of these insights–but alternatively, we might wonder what it must have been like to live...
Anta Baka
By Yoshi Salaverry / February 4, 2003
Compilation albums can be paradise or poison. Many comps that are organized and compiled according to genre conventions end up merely as documents of a particular style rather than pleasurable albums in their own right. On the other hand, record label comps often vie for an eclecticism that reflects the variety of the artists in their roster at the expense of cohesion. For instance, I remember that when I picked up Matador’s tenth anniversary three-disc extravaganza Everything is Nice, I was rabidly enthusiastic to find so many songs by so many greats (Boards of Canada, Cat Power, and Yo La...
Life in the post-civil rights era explored in Bourbon
By Jerrin Zumberg / February 4, 2003
Enter May, Charlie, Rosa, and Tyrone. Four characters consumed by their immediate lives, but haunted by the past. Racial tensions and segregation remain, despite thirty years’ distance from the height of the Civil Rights movement. The foursome is the creation of novelist and playwright Pearl Cleage. Presented for the first time on a Chicago stage, Bourbon at the Border follows the emotional and often hysterical lives of two distinct, middle-aged, black couples living in Detroit and struggling to make ends meet. While May awaits the return of Charlie, who has supposedly recovered from a mental illness, we meet an animated...
Elder conducts, lectures on three English composers
By Anne Lovering Rounds / February 4, 2003
“Interesting” is a loaded word. Though its literal senses are harmless enough, and can even be flattering (when it means noteworthy, relevant, or outstanding), nuances of euphemism often come with it. That is, a sort of spoken ellipse will enter the voice, an indicator that we’re trying hard to be tactful under the circumstances. “It was…interesting,” I would say of Tom Jones’ cover of the Rolling Stones’ “Honky Tonk Woman.” Real meaning: Tom Jones is definitely not outstanding, and he’s no substitute for Mick Jagger. Keep all the meanings of that word in your head as you read this sentence....
Ministry of Fun
By Jon Garrett / February 4, 2003
The Juliana Theory might just take the cake for worst album with the best singles. Certainly they’ll win the prize for the 2003 calendar year. As good as the first two tracks on Love are, the subsequent 12 manage to sink the whole enterprise into the worst emo goo I’ve ever laid ears on. However, it would be a shame to hold their recorded output against them and miss this show, which also happens to be their CD release party. Live, the Theory completely shed their overproduced sound and unleash a fierce sonic beast, making their show a must-see proposition....
Trashy TV producer tires of schlock, grabs a Glock
By Joseph N. Liss / January 31, 2003
Chuck Barris was an American genius of vulgarity, a descendent of the impresario/con men satirized and celebrated by Mark Twain. Relocate such low-brow flair into the ’70s, the cultural domain of Philip Roth, Paddy Chayefsky and Thomas Pynchon, and naturally you get a neurotic and sex-crazed Jew who produces absurd TV shows and gets involved with the CIA on the side. Originator of such reviled cultural landmarks as The Dating Game and The Gong Show, Barris, disgraced (he was named by one newspaper the “Downfall of Western Civilization”) and long forgotten, pens an autobiography (the veracity of which is flimsy...
Trashy TV producer tires of schlock, grabs a Glock
By Joseph N. Liss / January 31, 2003
Chuck Barris was an American genius of vulgarity, a descendent of the impresario/con men satirized and celebrated by Mark Twain. Relocate such low-brow flair into the ’70s, the cultural domain of Philip Roth, Paddy Chayefsky and Thomas Pynchon, and naturally you get a neurotic and sex-crazed Jew who produces absurd TV shows and gets involved with the CIA on the side. Originator of such reviled cultural landmarks as The Dating Game and The Gong Show, Barris, disgraced (he was named by one newspaper the “Downfall of Western Civilization”) and long forgotten, pens an autobiography (the veracity of which is flimsy...
Demons and dispossessed wander a Midnight Nation
By Chris Meeske / January 31, 2003
Damnation, both as a spiritual condition and as a metaphor for more secular misery, has long inspired some of literature’s greatest creations (Dante’s Inferno, Milton’s Paradise Lost, and Dostoyevsky’s Crime and Punishment spring to mind). While it is probably presumptuous to compare Midnight Nation to these pillars of Western literature, its story of damnation, loss, and hope in the modern world certainly gains points for its ambition. Neither the fires of hell nor the tortures of conscience are the primary plagues that haunt the lost souls of Midnight Nation’s sad cast of characters, but rather the all-too-simple process of falling...
Noiseworthy Quiet American slips silently through cinemas
By Nick Kolakowski / January 31, 2003
The Quiet American is one of the best movies you’ll never see. That’s not to accuse you, gentle reader, of being one of those morons who prefer the latest Vin Diesel “thrill ride” to the exclusion of art-house movies. No–Miramax seems inclined to bury American as fast as possible, in order to avoid catching any flack about its “anti-patriotic” sentiments. Any such sentiments would be the fault of Graham Greene, who wrote the 1955 novel that this film is based on, and who had a habit of seeding his stories with treacherous Americans. People’s Exhibit A of this would be...
CIA seeks in vain for cute, athletic MIT student
By Willa Paskin / January 31, 2003
Let’s not pretend that The Recruit is anything other than exactly what you think it is. Which is to say it is the predictably unpredictable story of CIA recruit James Clayton, played by Collin Farrell; the wizened agent-cum-father figure who brings him into the agency; and the fellow agent he loves. I can’t be asked to harp on the fact that this movie is objectively not that good because we all already know that. In any event, no one going to see The Recruit is under any illusions about its contributions to artistic cinema. It’s just supposed to be entertaining,...
Comics in training triumph
By Tim Calkins / January 28, 2003
The Second City Training Center is what it sounds like–a training center for up-and-coming comedic talent. So it follows that my expectations of Segue were a little bit lower than for the normal Second City. While there were parts that might not have been clean enough for the main stage, Segue is a good production that has a great dollars-to-laughs ratio. It’s cheap and it’s funny. Donny’s Skybox Studio Theater is a smallish theater with seating for about 80. It is home to the testing/training grounds of one of the premier comedy groups in the nation, the Second City. Occupying...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / January 28, 2003
Scout Niblett I Conjure Series Secretly Canadian My disgust with the explosion of female singer-songwriters in the mid/late 90’s, as heralded by the Lilith Fair, has never really waned. As far in the past as Jewel’s screeching mew and a handful of other forgettable anti-talents like Shawn Colvin and Sarah McLaughlan are, that blip in music history taught me an indelible lesson–always beware of a singer with only a guitar or piano as accompaniment; being sonically “naked” like this gives the pretense of sincerity but often stinks of sentimentality. I’m happy to report that although Scout Niblett falls into the...
Never-never Land for drug dealers, thugs, and thieves
By Joseph N. Liss / January 28, 2003
After Coppolla’s The Godfather was released, the declining New York mafia started speaking, acting, and killing like the Corleone family; they had a new image they had to live up to. The Godfather series is about the attempt to hold upper class civility and family tradition above the extortion and murderous power plays that pay the bills. GoodFellas, to which City of God has frequently been compared, is a rather seedier tale of the disintegration of friendship in a social circle defined by opportunism. City of God is the least civilized, and therefore the most honest, depiction of life in...
What is music?
By Nicholas Betson / January 28, 2003
As composer Shulamit Ran, the new artistic director of the Contemporary Chamber Players Series, reminded concertgoers at the beginning of this performance, Chicago is in no shortage of concerts of new music. Indeed, the very day of this concert (January 19) testified to this. Aside from having to choose the CCP concert over the “Chant” concert at Rockefeller Chapel, listeners were also forced to choose between performances of Messiaen’s piano masterpiece Vingt Regards sur l’Enfant Jesus at Symphony Center and later in the evening a concert of works by Ralph Shapey (former artistic director of the CCP and professor at...
Beauty is skin-deep: Japanese lacquer boxes at Smart
By Eric Park / January 28, 2003
The title of the Smart Museum’s latest exhibit showcasing Japanese lacquer boxes is aptly called “Symbol and Substance.” The boxes in this sumptuous collection are varied and many in number (56 to be exact), encompassing several centuries of Japanese life from the Muromachi (1392-1568) to the Momoyama (1568-1615) and the Edo (1615-1868) periods, implying and reflecting the tastes of a Byzantine culture perhaps best approached through the aid of history books. Grand allusions aside, however, the collection is comprised of such ordinary household items as ink boxes, lunchboxes, medicine containers, and a pillow. And they are one of the most...
Take a ride in a haunted pram
By Yoshi Salaverry / January 24, 2003
Imagine being a baby again. Imagine lying in a stroller wiggling your helpless little limbs as a distant, inaccessible figure, hovering above you, backlit by a yellow lamp, pushes you through a dark street. Now imagine that you can hear a troupe of kids banging on their older siblings’ drums and keyboards in the distance, and you might have an idea of the experience of listening to Pram, an aptly named band. While Pram shares certain traits with Broadcast, Stereolab, and perhaps Mùm as well, these similarities are somewhat superficial matters of instrumentation and ambience. Each band’s atmospherics are tinged...
Zwan yawn: Billy Corgan’s new band sucks cork
By Jon Garrett / January 24, 2003
We lost Billy Corgan long ago and he’s never coming back. Give it up. The day he donned his black frock, the Smashing Pumpkins were officially over. Sure, there were a few noteworthy singles, but the albums were nothing more than mediocrity dashed with a few tossed-off moments of genius. And we were all left wondering what could have been. Of all the grunge bands to come and go, few would disagree that the Smashing Pumpkins stretched the genre to its creative limits–incorporating neat atmospheric touches and a distinctly British penchant for effects pedals. American rock radio was a better...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / January 24, 2003
In reality it may not often happen that a scullery maid marries the owner of a Rolls Royce. But doesn’t every Rolls Royce owner dream that scullery maids dream of rising to his stature? Siegfried Kracauer, “The Little Shopgirls Go to the Movies” Class mobility is back in the news, kids, and it’s up to me, as Hyde Park’s foremost chronicler of the Après-New-Sincerity Movement to bring it down into bite-sized pieces everyone can understand, like a Spielberg movie. In fact, that’s where I’ll begin. Young Spielberg presented us with a trifle of a movie over the Christmas holiday, Catch...
U of C playwright eschews phallic symbol
By Dave Maher / January 24, 2003
There are some things that just should not be done: Art Garfunkel covering Stevie Wonder’s “I Believe (When I Fall In Love It Will Be Forever),” Avril Lavigne mispronouncing David Bowie’s last name, the movie Junior – all horrible mistakes. An addition to this list is writing the use of guns into a stage play. There are undoubtedly going to be a few times where a gun will actually be a welcome addition to an already engaging plot, but these times are the exception, not the rule. Let me explain. This past Saturday, January 18, I went to the O’Rourke...
Shortcuts
By Tom Zimpleman / January 24, 2003
Matt Pond PA The Nature of Maps Polyvinyl Records Genres are a constant problem for those who write about music. The problem isn’t necessarily with those bands that try to straddle several different genres–“we’re a little alt-country, a little no-wave, and with a dub reggae-influenced rhythm section”–so much as it’s a problem for those bands that seem to consistently fall in an area right between genres. Matt Pond PA is such a band. Perhaps they’re EMO, but they don’t have the usual EMO flourishes–the guitar riffs are more complex, there are no loud-quiet dynamics, and the pop touches aren’t as...
No woman, no cry: CSO plays glowingly under Dutoit
By Anne Lovering Rounds / January 21, 2003
Chicago Symphony Orchestra Charles Dutoit, guest conductor Ravel, Mother Goose Berlioz, Symphonie Fantastique, Op. 14 Symphony Hall, January 18, 2003 If the subliminal messages of “Sergeant Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band” confirm that Paul McCartney is dead, so is pianist Martha Argerich. It should have come as no surprise to hear that Argerich would not perform in her weekend engagement with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. Last year, Argerich cancelled because of a supposed wrist injury. This year, as posters of apology in Symphony Center claimed, she became ill at the last minute. Suspicious yet? Of course, her celebrity status is...
Taking the long road: An interview with the Music
By Jon Garrett / January 21, 2003
While the British music press has been busy plugging every skinny-tie-wearing garage band they can dig up, the arrival of the Music–the best and brightest hope from the isles in some time–has gone relatively unheralded. Deemed out of step by U.K. journalists for their sprawling, psychedelically-inclined songs and lead singer Robert Harvey’s high-pitched wailing, the prodigious youngsters have been forced to win fans the old-fashioned way, through electrifying gigs and word-of-mouth. It also hasn’t hurt that the band has a stellar collection of EPs to go with their just-completed debut album. Although many have already picked up on the band’s...
Voices Ministry of Fun
By The Maroon Staff / January 21, 2003
Rolling Stones Wednesday, January 22, United Cente, 7:30 p.m., $50-$350, 1901 West Madison (312) 455-4500. The first night of the Stones’ back-to-back at the United Center is sold out, but you can check out tomorrow’s show for as little as $50, or as much as $350, if you’re into that sort of thing. My mom saw this show when it came through Cleveland last year. WTG Mom. I don’t have a whole lot to say about this. Keith’s gotta pay the Blood-On-Wheels dudes, and Mick needs to feed his hot daughters. Actually, they all have hot daughters, all of whom...
Interpol, a.k.a. “Fashion Police,” feud with Hair Police
By Mario Diaz-Perez / January 21, 2003
Just before the end of an evenly matched game of pool at a bar on Clark Avenue near the Cabaret Metro, Paul Banks, the lead singer of New York City’s Interpol, says, “Shit, I’m gonna lose.” Although he lost during this pre-concert ritual, the band’s performance didn’t falter in the least on Sunday, January 13. Interpol powered through all the hooks of their songs without losing any of their atmospheric hum. Their current tour comes at the start of rocketing critical success. Within eight months after releasing their first album, Turn on the Bright Lights, they’ve been mentioned consistently in...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / January 17, 2003
There’s a place in France where the naked ladies dance There’s a hole in the wall where the men can see it all Why on earth singing the above lines with a bunch of friends in first grade was tantalizing is perhaps something I should best not talk about in a newspaper column. But it was, even though there was no idea what watching a bunch of naked ladies dancing might start doing to try and keep my attention. I was a kid–the mere fact of nudity was enough to grab attention. Shit, it might still be. I also badly...
Med students “knock ’em dead” with Stoppard play
By Tim Michaels / January 17, 2003
In a crucial moment of the first act in Tom Stoppard’s “The Real Thing,” a character screams, “having all the right words isn’t what life’s about.” The Knock ’em Dead Theatre Company has proved this by showing that it takes not just a good play, but also gifted actors to pull off an amazing production. Even with one of the best-written comedies of the 20th century, the element that truly allows for a successful performance is the actors’ concerted effort to bring the script to life. The Knock ’em Dead Theatre Company, which is in its second year, was created...
25th Hour: New York’s rising and a hard man’s fall
By Ben Adams / January 17, 2003
Everyone involved with 25th Hour–Spike Lee, the cast, the writers, even some critics–seems to be downplaying its connection with the events of September 11. It would appear that the party line goes something like this: “We knew New York City was an element of this film, and we wanted to portray it the way it is today.” The truth is that screenwriter David Benioff completed this story in both novel and screenplay form before the morning of September 11 ever dawned, but you’d never know it from the finished product. It isn’t enough to say that New York City is...
Morvern Callar: Taciturn actress continues silent streak
By Tom Zimpleman / January 14, 2003
The title character of Morvern Callar (yes, that’s her name) wakes up on Christmas day to find that her writer boyfriend has killed himself. An apparently unmotivated suicide, he leaves behind only a brief note explaining that “it seemed like the right thing to do.” His girlfriend doesn’t reveal the suicide; she goes to a party that night and tells her friends that he suddenly left town. She sends his completed manuscript to a publisher (per the instructions on his note) but puts her own name on the byline. Finally, she buries him herself on a hillside outside of town...
Pacifica Quartet and Wu Han wow at Mandell Hall
By Jason Sherwin / January 14, 2003
Pacifica String Quartet with Wu Han, piano Mendelssohn, String Quartets Op. 12, 44/1 Brahms, Piano Quintet Mandel Hall, January 10, 2003 On Friday, January 10, the Pacifica Quartet, artists-in-residence at the University, and pianist Wu Han kicked off the winter season of the Chicago Presents series with a splendid concert of chamber works from Mendelssohn and Brahms. They opened the concert with Mendelssohn’s String Quartet in E flat, which is catalogued as Mendelssohn’s first string quartet (although the A major String Quartet was written two years before when the composer was only 18). Within the scope of music history, Mendelssohn’s...
Round Room: A return to that organic Phish flavor
By Tim Calkins / January 14, 2003
I like Phish. Well, I like live Phish. Sure the studio albums are fine–they are, of course, the basis of the live stuff–but the studio fails to capture the brilliance of a live performance. This brilliance assumes a certain degree of talent and musicality that many commercial acts are wholly incapable of creating, but for the few who can, the live performance is the most accurate representation of their music. Phish falls into this category, which has mixed benefits. The studio album will not live up to the live experience, but the expectations that people have of the record will...
Morvern Callar: Taciturn actress continues silent streak
By Tom Zimpleman / January 14, 2003
The title character of Morvern Callar (yes, that’s her name) wakes up on Christmas day to find that her writer boyfriend has killed himself. An apparently unmotivated suicide, he leaves behind only a brief note explaining that “it seemed like the right thing to do.” His girlfriend doesn’t reveal the suicide; she goes to a party that night and tells her friends that he suddenly left town. She sends his completed manuscript to a publisher (per the instructions on his note) but puts her own name on the byline. Finally, she buries him herself on a hillside outside of town...
Adaptation: The twisted mind of Charlie Kaufman
By Joseph Hansen / January 10, 2003
Nowadays most movies are either sequels or remakes, with those few exceptions being so clichéd that they more closely resemble vomit than film. It would appear originality has taken a backseat to regurgitation in much the same way storytelling has taken a backseat to special effects. In the midst of such intellectual vacuity, Adaptation is a refreshing anomaly that is both clever and poignant. Vin Diesel fans, beware. Adaptation is written by Charlie Kaufman and directed by Spike Jonze, the same maniacs who concocted Being John Malkovich. In a way, their movies are similar to Michael Jackson–unclassifiable, and weird as...
Voices picks the best movies of the year that was 2002
By The Maroon Staff / January 10, 2003
We, the movie aficionados of Voices, would like to present to you what we believe to be the best movies of 2002, a year that was riddled with the worst atrocities committed to film (à la Attack of the Clones, Jackass: The Movie, etc.) but redeemed with some pretty rockin’ ones listed below. You will notice that we have not included Far From Heaven on our list unlike the majority of film critics who’ve literally stapled the title onto theirs. That is because we do not wag our tails at movies that were “hits” at the Toronto Film Festival; by...
The pianist jokes end here
By Joseph N. Liss / January 10, 2003
The Pianist directed by Roman Polanski, Focus Features, 148 minutes.
Boulez leaves Schoenberg inert at the CSO
By Nicholas Betson / January 10, 2003
Pierre Boulez, conductor Daniel Barenboim, piano Chicago Symphony Orchestra Haydn: Symphony No. 102 in B-flat major Schoenberg: Concerto for Piano and Orchestra, Opus 42 Schoenberg: Chamber Symphony No. 2, Opus 38 Strauss: Burlesque for Piano and Orchestra in D minor Thursday, 5 December 2002 8:00 pm Orchestra Hall, Symphony Center In his 1952 manifesto Schoenberg is Dead, Pierre Boulez had many good things to say about the man who had shrugged off the overbearing tradition of tonality and invented the revolutionary 12-tone or serial method of composition, despite chiding the composer (who had not yet spent one year in his...
U of C Law School produces lawyers, eerie legal thriller
By Joseph N. Liss / January 10, 2003
This is a thriller of a sort, set in 1992 at that strange glassy box next to Burton-Judson known as the Law School. The author, a Law School alum, has conceived a murder tale, which, were it true, would have been the University’s most sordid episode since Leopold and Loeb suffocated a little boy on 50th and Greenwood. The protagonist is Grayson Bullock, a touch unwieldy as fake names go, a Texan just starting at the Law School, dull and sane, easy prey for Aris Byrd, a 3L and sexual velociraptor. You need to sleep with Aris Byrd because she...
Solaris returns, Hollywood suits rework the metaphysics
By Tom Zimpleman / December 3, 2002
Solaris Directed by Steven Soderbergh 20th Century Fox, 99 minutes Stanislaw Lem’s Solaris raises metaphysical problems that may not, on reflection, actually be problems. To be sure, there are instances of consciousness and existence that fall outside our traditional conceptions, but whether a reader of the book-or a viewer of one of the two movie adaptations-needs to be concerned that we don’t adequately understand the basis of our own existence or the nature of consciousness because of those instances, is not, I think, a conclusion that the story demands. We’re given, in essence, a thought experiment without a goal, and...
Voices Best and Worst of 2002
By Jon Garrett / December 3, 2002
Jon Garrett’s Top Albums of 2002 Top 20 lists are a sham. For that matter, so are top 10 lists. How many albums from any given year can you honestly say you listen to on a regular basis? Five or six, if you’re lucky. The bottom line is that very few albums endure, and yet publications like Spin and Rolling Stone continue to pump out massive year-end lists–as if your collection would somehow be incomplete without the latest Sleater-Kinney record. If a release makes my list, it’s there for one reason alone: I firmly believe I’ll be listening to it...
Extremely irresponsible Ops
By Ben Adams / December 3, 2002
Extreme Ops Directed by Christian Duguay Paramount Pictures, 90 Minutes You have to go in expecting movies like this to be nonsense-filled and silly; they’re built that way on purpose by people who want to impress an audience that appreciates it. The PG-13 rating gives that much away. I’m still tempted to write a review which details how embarrassingly immature and sensationalistic Extreme Ops really was, but I expect that the readers of these august pages inferred that much from the title. For good measure, though, here’s the plot synopsis as it appears on the screening invitation: “A group of...
Prazek Quartet at Mandel Hall
By Ser-Jin Lee / December 3, 2002
Prazak Quartet Dvorak, Bagatelles op. 47 Janacek, String Quartet No. 1 Smetana, String Quartet No. 1 Mandel Hall, November 22 On November 22, as part of The University of Chicago Presents: Chamber Music Series, the world-renowned Prazak String Quartet was invited to perform at Mandel Hall. This engagement marked the Czech ensemble’s debut concert in Chicago, and judging from the near-capacity crowd that filled Mandel Hall that evening, its performance had been eagerly anticipated. The concert featured a selection of works from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, a sampling of the music spawned during the renaissance in the...
Ivan Moravec performs at Symphony Hall
By Christian Kraus / November 26, 2002
Ivan Moravec, piano Schumann, Scenes from Childhood Chopin, Fantasie in F minor, Ballade No 4 Brahms, Piano Pieces (Selection) Debussy, Pour le Piano Symphony Hall, November 24, 2002 Let me speak first of Frédéric Chopin’s Fourth Ballade in F minor. It is a complex, glorious, majestic, almost mythical piece. An entire novel has been written about it–Italian author Roberto Cotroneo’s Presto con fuoco–and it remains a cornerstone of romantic piano literature, one never exhaustible from interpretive attacks from all fronts. Interestingly enough, it is also a piece that makes use of some proto-cinematic techniques. It begins with a few tender...
Saint Etienne: Eventually, the emotion will get to you
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / November 26, 2002
Admitting being bested is often the best policy, so here is presented probably one of the best introductions to Saint Etienne, by Kevin Pearce, from the liner notes of the anthology Smash the System. “When they come to write the dissertations, and all the deconstructions and doctorates are done and dusted, I hope the point is not lost. For how Saint Etienne subtly smashed the system was by mastering the art of being all things to all people.” He’s right–Saint Etienne manage to cross so many stylistic lines that it is hard to imagine that someone will be unable to...
Pinetop Seven play at Schuba’s; audience behaves badly
By Elizabeth Ptacek / November 26, 2002
Pinetop Seven Schuba’s November 23 Pinetop Seven could easily be a pretentious band. They play music that defies any easy categorizing – the term “noir” comes up in a lot of descriptions and their songs are often called “snapshots.” A band, no, an ensemble that works with “found sounds” and has generated a lot of buzz for improvising a score to a black and white silent film (The Wind) at our own Doc Films. If you roll your eyes at the idea of tone poetry, you might not be inclined to follow up on Pinetop Seven. That, however, would be...
Nirvana and U2 offer album-buyers a loving look back
By Whet Moser / November 26, 2002
It’s hard to tell when exactly CDs get here to the Maroon office unless you’re here for the mail run–all the mailings immediately get pawed through. So it’s surprising that the new Nirvana compilation, Nirvana, and U2: The Best of 1990-2000 sat in the office unclaimed. This isn’t especially surprising if you work here: none of our critics will admit to liking U2, and all the ones that like Nirvana already have their hits. Absorbing the two discs over the past week, this all started to make sense. U2 is lazily frontloaded with “Even Better than the Real Thing,” “Mysterious...
The Ex-Models are tired of posing, they want to rock
By Dave Maher / November 26, 2002
Rock and roll is a curious beast. For some bands, it is merely one half of the equation (e.g. rap-rock); for others, it’s a general category to fall under because of the presence of distorted guitars, but every once in a while there are bands that can, despite all others’ attempts, only be described as quintessentially rock. The first example I think of is At the Drive-In, who has created a critical frenzy to find their replacement since they broke up. And after seeing the Ex-Models open for the Dismemberment Plan on Thursday, I think they deserve a mention in...
Mission of Burma: The benefits of rocking over time
By Tom Zimpleman / November 26, 2002
In one of his introductions to Let Us Now Praise Famous Men, James Agee described the book as a work of fury, not a work of art. Art, in fact, was a mark of acceptance – a sign that a work had been drained of its ability to excite and disrupt its audience; he hoped his book could avoid such a fate. He offered a test for those unsure of the difference: get a stereo (phonograph was his word) capable of playing at an extreme volume. Then sit down and listen to something. “But I don’t mean just sit down...
Conductor Lorin Maazel flicks the wrist; it’s a technique
By Online Editor / November 22, 2002
The Good, the Not-So-Bad, and the Unfortunately-Still-Ugly” should have been the title of the program for the November 15 concert at the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Hall featuring music of Mendelssohn, Kearns and Bartók. The concert featured two works by Mendelssohn, including the Overture to A Midsummer Night’s Dream and his Reformation Symphony No. 5. Contemporary composer Aaron Kernis contributed to the program with Simple Songs, which was flanked by Bartók’s Suite from The Miraculous Mandarin. The concert began with Mendelssohn’s Overture to the great Shakespearian play. Mendelssohn wrote the overture in 1826, when he was just 17. The music was...
Guns N’ Roses: Axl shows up, hits high notes sparingly
By Jon Garrett / November 22, 2002
Expect the worst; pray for something decent. That was my mindset going into the Chicago Guns N’ Roses gig this past Monday night, the fourth date on their first tour since the early ’90s. Early returns were not good. Axl Rose hadn’t bothered to show up for the first stop in Vancouver, thereby inciting an angry mob to hurl heavy objects at the arena doors and forcing the police to don riot gear. Rose actually managed to take the stage at the following two dates, albeit a good hour or so late in some cases and to half-empty venues. Meanwhile,...
Ministry of Fun
By Online Editor / November 22, 2002
Mission of Burma The Metro November 22 This concert is not yet sold out, and for the life of me, I don’t know why. Coming out of Boston in the early 1980s, Mission of Burma basically invented the post-punk genre—that is, punk music played by accomplished musicians. Their live shows are also the stuff of legend: they employed a full-time tape bender, who from a booth at the back of the venue would loop sounds through the speakers; and the concerts were so loud that the band was forced to break up because guitarist Roger Miller was losing his hearing....
“Found garbage” breeds new meanings in watery, domestic
By Michael Murphy / November 22, 2002
The Renaissance Society unveiled the second show of its 87th year on Sunday. The show, titled watery, domestic (named after the less than optimistic Pavement album of the same title), brings together seventeen artists whose work re-composes nostalgia and irony to comment on popular culture. Located on the fourth floor of Cobb Hall, the Renaissance Society houses independent shows five times a year, and holds no permanent collection. Well known for presenting cutting-edge artists before their “big break,” this current exhibition, watery, domestic, highlights superstar artists like Paul Winstanley and Richard Prince (included in a Whitney Museum of American Art...
Voices talks to CKY drummer Jess Margera
By Jon Garrett / November 22, 2002
The following is a transcript of a brief telephone conversation with CKY drummer, Jess Margera. He called just before his band took the stage in Detroit. Maroon: So how did you get the opportunity to open for Guns N’ Roses on this tour? Jess Margera: We were on the Tony Hawk tour for five days and we finished up in Detroit and we drove straight through to San Diego to finish up a club tour. We had two days to get there. When we got to Flagstaff, Arizona, which is like 400 miles from San Diego, we got a call...
Jeff Buckley remembrance gathers fans and the inspired
By Jerrin Zumberg / November 22, 2002
Beginning at 7:00 p.m. and extending through the next four hours, 22 artists from across the U.S. and Europe delivered their musical birthday gift to the late Jeff Buckley. Sponsored by Goose Island beer and benefiting the Musician’s Assistance Program (MAP), Uncommon Ground celebrated its fifth anniversary of the Jeff Buckley Tribute. What started five years ago as a simple idea has turned into a much larger production. Held each year on Jeff Buckley’s birthday, Chicago’s Uncommon Ground coffeehouse packs its back room with a throng of patrons to hear talented musicians play Buckley covers and inspired original songs. In...
University Theater adapts Anouilh’s peculiar Leocadia
By Jared Ranere / November 22, 2002
Imagine getting fired from your job and sent by train to an enormous estate where an eccentric duchess greets you in hysterics, brings you to a surreal park where ivy grows on taxicabs, and then enjoins you to assume the identity of a peculiar yet gorgeous ballerina who died two years ago. Now imagine that the aristocrat is your aunt and your only love is this deceased ballerina named Leocadia whom you knew for merely three days. These are the respective plights of Amanda and the Prince—the central characters around which Jean Anouilh’s nostalgic world circles in his Leocadia. University...
Vengerov charms Chicago
By Sharon Nakhimovsky / November 19, 2002
Maxim Vengerov, violin Solo violin recital Symphony Hall Sunday, November 10 It has been a while since I have seen a musician feel so comfortable on stage. As he walked on stage with two bows, his Stradivarius violin and a microphone, Maxim Vengerov was clearly ready to have some fun – so much so that he wanted to share that feeling with the audience. “The first time I was on stage was when I was eight years old. I had only thirty minutes worth of music, but I just didn’t want to leave that stage. My mother had to drag...
The Dismemberment Plan has that indefinable quality
By Tom Zimpleman / November 19, 2002
Traditional descriptions fail a lot of bands, but they are especially faulty in regard to Washington D.C.’s Dismemberment Plan. I’ve seen them described as emo, as latter-day torch-bearers for the early- and mid-’90s D.C. punk scene, as a frat-rock jam band, and as a jazz outfit. It doesn’t take an indie rock aficionado to realize that these descriptions don’t add up, and saying that the band manages to be all of these things is, I am afraid, just as unhelpful a cliché. The most truthful definition is reflexive: the Dismemberment Plan sound exactly like the Dismemberment Plan. Uninformative on its...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / November 19, 2002
Things I mean: I am really, really sorry. This column is not normally home to things I sincerely mean. This is an exception. Back to the well: Dear state of Illinois, Way to be worse than your cousin Ohio in every important measure of state quality, specifically college football prowess. Thanks, Pete How to beat me up Home: I am completely defenseless in the morning. If you catch me asleep or naked, I can virtually guarantee that you could beat me up. Punching me in the face while sleeping would send a nice message. During the afternoon and evening, I...
Kill Obscurity
By Evan Druce / November 19, 2002
Chicago, arguably the best street-food city in the U.S., is known for three gut-busting classics: deep-dish pizza, Italian beef sandwiches, and the Chicago-style hot dog. According to my informal poll, most U of C undergraduates have tried the first, a mere handful the second, and even fewer the last. This is unfortunate, however, as the Chicago dog is unlike any tube steak one will find in any other American city. Chicago’s hot dog, like its pizza, is not meant to be eaten on the run; it is a messy, hulking affair. With over 1,800 Vienna Beef doggeries in Chicagoland alone,...
Vengerov charms Chicago
By Sharon Nakhimovsky / November 19, 2002
Maxim Vengerov, violin Solo violin recital Symphony Hall Sunday, November 10 It has been a while since I have seen a musician feel so comfortable on stage. As he walked on stage with two bows, his Stradivarius violin and a microphone, Maxim Vengerov was clearly ready to have some fun – so much so that he wanted to share that feeling with the audience. “The first time I was on stage was when I was eight years old. I had only thirty minutes worth of music, but I just didn’t want to leave that stage. My mother had to drag...
Tully: The past rears its ugly head, once more, in Nebraska
By Tom Zimpleman / November 19, 2002
Tully Directed by Hilary Birmingham Tell Tale Films, 102 Minutes A great part of the appeal of Tully – a film set on a family farm in Nebraska – is that it documents a dying way of life. While attention to the problems of rural America has largely dissipated since the end of the farm crisis of the early 1980s, we still live in a country where it’s become nearly unfeasible to make a living from the land. Family farms go under every day, either from the burden of debt, or simply because parents retire and their children decide to...
Ministry of Fun
By The Maroon Staff / November 15, 2002
The Porcupine Tree November 17 Martyr’s 8 p.m., $15 Like some Pink Floyd with your Tool? If so, I think I’ve found the band for you. Porcupine Tree has been around for about a decade, but I’ll bet my bottom dollar that the group has managed to fly beneath your radar until now. The band, fronted and guided by singer/guitarist Jay Wilson, has preferred working on the fringes of the rock spectrum, never making much of a commercial impact either in their home country (U.K.) or Stateside. So don’t feel bad if you haven’t heard of them. Porcupine Tree are...
The Unanswered Question: It’s time we got metaphysical
By Anne Lovering Rounds / November 15, 2002
Talking about music is like dancing about architecture.” Nobody knows the original utterer of this piece of bumper-sticker wisdom, familiar to so many musicians. Some believe it was Steve Martin; others say Miles Davis. Sill others claim Elvis Costello. Whoever said it first, it has become a tired quotation. Still, the sentiment is noble: all too easily, words take away music’s pointedness. In the face of a single phrase or an especially lyrical melody, words become hyperexplanatory, vague and meaningless. Sometimes, music expresses what words just can’t. If this is the case, the program annotator for the Chicago Symphony Orchestra...
What Kind of Total Disregard For Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / November 15, 2002
The reviews have been unilaterally pretty good—The New Yorker raved, as did Salon. Even Johnathan Rosenbaum wrote a pretty positive capsule for the Reader. Perhaps the excitement could be best captured by the sentiment my roommate expressed in his weblog: “The degree to which I am geeked out about 8 Mile, the Eminem movie, is embarrassing.” It’s sort of true for nearly everyone I’ve talked to, including myself (yes, I talk to myself often)—as soon as I started seeing commercials for the movie, even I, who’d sort of gotten distant from young Em since the Marshal Mathers LP, started to...
8 Mile: Let’s you and I have a little rap session, mister
By Joseph Hanson / November 15, 2002
Last week Marshall Mathers had America’s number one single, two top ten albums, and a $54 million opening weekend for his semiautobiographical movie 8 Mile. Although this weekend he will undoubtedly be trounced by Harry Potter, it’s still pretty damn impressive. Six years ago white rappers were laughed at, and now one of them has almost every kind of entertainment in the palm of his hand. It would be easy to attack 8 Mile. Why not rant about this invasion of rapper-actors? Why not chastise Curtis Hanson for wasting his time? Why not snottily dismiss 8 Mile as a commercial...
J. Mascis lets down biggest fan fan
By Jon Garrett / November 15, 2002
Dinosaur Jr. will always have a special place in my collection. Where You Been was the record that introduced me to the wonderful world of indie rock. Without it, I might never have sought out Pavement’s Slanted and Enchanted or the Flaming Lips’ Hit to Death in the Future Head. “Out There,” the opening track, still qualifies as one of the most amazing songs produced in the early ’90s. My jaw literally dropped the first time I heard it. “Smells Like Teen Spirit” sounds like a pathetic whimper next to it. What set Dinosaur Jr. apart from the legions of...
The Music makes the music for the music
By Jon Garrett / November 12, 2002
The Music Double Door November 6, 2002 Sometimes it’s difficult to capture the power of performance through writing. There’s something inherently silly about using words to illustrate the way a singer convulses or the way instrumental sections interlock to form a tight, danceable beat. Language is notoriously ill-equipped to convey feeling. But it’s particularly problematic in this case because the Music’s music is so defiantly against easy categorization and the slight awkwardness of the band’s delivery is precisely what makes them such a compelling live proposition. To begin to make sense of the Music, you’ve got to start with Robert...
Geopolitics explored by Camerata. Also, music is played.
By Deirdre Kelly / November 12, 2002
Boston Camerata Camerata Mediterranea Andalusian Orchestra of Fez Cantigas de Santa Maria: Songs of Mystic Spain Christians, Muslims and Jews at the court of Alfonso the Wise, King of Castille (1221-1284) The Boston Camerata Joel Cohen, director Mohammed Brioul, guest co-director with members of Camerata Mediterranea and Sharq Arab-American Ensemble Mandel Hall, November 5 While across the nation people sat before their television sets awaiting the results of the interim elections, one privileged audience sat in Mandel Hall soaking up the sounds of medieval Spain. The Boston Camerata, well-known and respected for their interpretations of early music, joined forces with...
Elvis Costello charms U of C with tales of romantic woe
By Whet Moser / November 12, 2002
W: I haven’t been here in sunny historic Hyde Park all that long, but when word spread through the office that MAB had signed up Elvis Costello I intuited that they’d hit a Jose-Canseco-off-the-restaurant-in-the-SkyDome-type home run. Suffice it to say that the Maroon office collectively flipped out when we found out about the show. I counted 8 current and former Maroon staffers in attendance, and there would have been more had the show not sold out. If we’re representative of the student body, which who knows, then, well, yeah. P: I have been here in sunny historic Hyde Park for...
Florentine dynasty sends up masterworks to the Institute
By Evan Kaldor / November 12, 2002
The Medici, Michelangelo and the Art of Late Renaissance Florence The Art Institute November 9 – February 2, 2003 The Art Institute’s The Medici, Michelangelo and the Art of Late Renaissance Florence is a fabulous collection of paintings, sculptures, and object pieces from this period. Five years in the making, this exhibition is a survey of the Medici patronage (arguably the most enlightened art benefactors ever) between 1534 and 1631. A central beneficiary of their patronage was Michelangelo, and this exhibition serves to both display some of his most famous pieces and to highlight his legacy. For those learned in...
Doc Spotlight
By Margaret Hagan / November 12, 2002
When I was younger I briefly considered becoming a freak. I decided against it. Sometimes, especially since coming to this school, I regret this decision. But at least I always know that, if I ever change my mind, the expert manual on becoming a freak is readily available at my neighborhood video store or—this Tuesday evening only—at Doc Films. Some critics call Jonathan Demme’s Stop Making Sense the best rock concert film—or even the best rock film—ever made. I will concede that point to Leonard Maltin, but I vote Stop Making Sense to be the best sociopathic exercise tape as...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / November 12, 2002
Dear diary, 11/11/02 (when I wrote it) Coming under fire now for thingsHaving hard time taking things seriously Shit Shit I was going to write about Ohio State football and I am probably going to do that anyway, so look out for that. But I might actually write seriously for a little while. Kind of stressful for the P-Man these days. Don’t know what that’s all about, but I’m tough. So don’t worry about me. [Cue music] My back may or may not be against the wall, so I am going to mask my real emotions behind a discussion of...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / November 8, 2002
The Juliana Theory Love Epic Records This album should be so much better. Two songs in, Love crumples and refuses to stop sucking until it comes to a halt at the sixty-plus mark. It’s not a pretty sight. And, believe it or not, I actually had high hopes for this album. I saw the Juliana Theory this past summer in Los Angeles, where they played an absolutely storming set that, at least in my mind, put to rest all of the emo-lite accusations that have dogged them since their first record, Understand This Is a Dream. Brett Detar had morphed...
The Soundtrack of Our Lives: We love the viking-hippies
By Nora Liddell / November 8, 2002
The Soundtrack of Our Lives may very well be answer to every ADHD afflicted, twenty-first century hippie, classic, punk, and garage rock fan’s prayers. The six-member outfit comprised of the remaining members of Union Carbide Productions (the group that effectively brought garage rock to Sweden in the late eighties and early nineties), The Soundtrack of Our Lives presides as the elder statesmen of the recent Scandinavian music boom. Although rivaled in popularity only by Abba in their native Sweden, the Soundtrack of Our Lives is relatively unknown stateside. But this may change with the release of their latest album, Behind...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / November 8, 2002
So today we talk about voices—hearing voices, speaking our own voices, and so on. It’s tricky to quite figure out exactly how this voice here, within this article, will speak and what it will say since it’s still a bit lost from the opportunity that all of us US citizens had on Tuesday to speak collectively with our own voice. Most of us decided to remain silent, which is, of course, its own non-empty set of signification. But those who spoke, did so, and if about 70,000 of them had voted differently, the Senate (and the US) would look very...
What’s the Matter with Arts and Entertainment?
By Tom Zimpleman / November 8, 2002
Snobbery, like bacteria, is found everywhere.” That’s a sweeping judgment, to be sure, but one that’s entirely defensible. Gather more than three people in the room, get them started talking about anything, and almost assuredly, one person will be a snob. I’m a snob, and you’re a snob too, and the author of the sentence that opened this column (Joseph Epstein) admits to being an incorrigible snob. That’s not to say we’re snobbish about everything, or even most things. But the tendency exists, and I daresay the best that anyone can hope for in this life is to be snobbish...
Completists rejoice! All Beethoven, now available
By Beth Jackson / November 8, 2002
[The following review was written by a student enrolled in Music 104. It was selected for publication by the students of that class. -Ed.] Musical connoisseurs – cellist Pieter Wispelwey of the Netherlands, and pianist Dejan Lazic of Hungary – served an impressive and comprehensive three-course meal of the early, middle, and late stages of Beethoven’s life. The audience gathered in the intimate setting of Mandel Hall on November 1 eagerly devoured, for the most part, the rich and expressive performance of the Complete Sonatas for cello and piano by Ludwig van Beethoven. The first two sonatas, No. 1...
Cooper Temple’s history of glam shows some promise
By Brian Bowman / November 8, 2002
We dare you to mean a single word you say,” the Cooper Temple Clause challenge their audience on their debut album, See This Through and Leave. The band is hyped enough to receive a review in Rolling Stone (not much of an honor, admittedly) despite the lack of domestic distribution for their album. At times, the band justifies their hype with an urgent and often inspired sonic assault. But too often, the band’s manifesto rings hollow, as it becomes clear that the Cooper themselves have very little to say, and too often fall back into all-too familiar musical patterns. In...
Dave Eggers tells absolutely everyone about his Velocity
By Devin Cain / November 5, 2002
It all starts out so easily: simple, contained, straightforward. After that, the world turns into something that resembles Dave Eggers’s extremely engaging new work, You Shall Know Our Velocity. Skip a few pages into the book, and you are handed a template of what the plot might look like, were it to run smoothly. The narrator, Will, and Hand, two Wisconsin friends in their late 20s, decide to go around the world and give away $32,000. Will comes up with the idea after hearing about special tickets being offered by the airlines: “The tickets allowed unrestricted flying as long as...
The Man From Elysian Fields: Oh, if I were intelligent
By Tom Zimpleman / November 5, 2002
While I fear I’m just grasping at something specious, I think it’s worth making a distinction between work that’s profound and work that’s intelligent. A work of profundity is ultimately a work about ideas, and those ideas are themselves particularly original and insightful. A work of intelligence is more difficult to define. A label like “intelligent” doesn’t comment so much on what was said but rather on the manner in which it was said—at a supremely appropriate moment, say, or with a due sense of gravitas. What makes the distinction even more important are the cases in which such labels...
Type Slowly: RedEye vs. Red Streak
By Whet Moser / November 5, 2002
Cheer up, Hyde Park: The Tribune and the Sun-Times care about you. If you’re 18-34, part of that demographic which so famously does not read newspapers, then you’re the target audience for RedEye and Red Streak, the new tabloids that, since Wednesday, have been so visibly present on campus. Newspapers around the country are terrified by the fact that you don’t read them. Between 1972 and 2000, according to an ongoing study by our own University, daily readership of newspapers by 21-25 year-olds dropped by half. Hence the Tribune’s “Q” section, which was apparently not enough; the Sun-Times is still...
Abbey Pub hosts Destroyer
By Tom Zimpleman / November 5, 2002
Occasionally, performances don’t go as well as they could and no one really seems to be at fault. Such performances are usually known as “the opening act.” Granted, some opening acts are just terrible—up-and-coming bands from the same hometown as the headlining act are the paradigm case of awful opening bands—and have only themselves to blame for an audience’s unresponsiveness. As a general rule, however, audiences tend to be unresponsive to an opening act regardless of the caliber of that act. They talk throughout the set because the band is an opener, not because the band is talentless. I saw...
Wagner finally fits the bill for Looney Tunes crowd
By Jason Sherwin / November 1, 2002
Wagner, Excepts from “Tannhäuser” Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Chorus Daniel Barenboim, conductor Angela Denoke, soprano Peter Seiffert, tenor Roman Trekel, bass Symphony Hall, October 17, 2002 On Thursday, October 17, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra performed excerpts from Wagner’s opera “Tannhäuser.” Since this was an orchestral production, neither staging nor costumes were a part of the performance. But, is a performance without any use of dynamics acceptable? Or would a piece performed with all the wrong notes be lauded for intensity of expression? I think not, and I am sure anyone with a decent ear for music would also agree. Therefore...
Get geeked for They Might Be Giants
By Brian Bauman / November 1, 2002
McSweeney’s vs. They Might Be Giants October 25-26, 2002 Athenaeum Theatre Somewhere in Middle America, there is a 16-year-old boy. For the sake of this article, let’s call him Steve. Steve is small, bespectacled, and enrolled in every quantitative AP course his high school offers. And in his secret pantheon of heroes, between Douglas Adams and the Linux penguin, Steve holds a special place for John Flansburgh and John Linnell of They Might Be Giants. Dave Eggers probably doesn’t have a place in the pantheon-yet. The author of A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius and editor of the off-beat, high-concept...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / November 1, 2002
The Foo Fighters One by One RCA Records By now, it’s a pretty widely accepted fact that the Foo Fighters are a great singles band. Just look at the collection of songs they’ve amassed over the course of their four studio albums: “I’ll Stick Around,” “Big Me,” “Monkey Wrench,” “Learn to Fly,” “Stacked Actors,” “Hero,” and the downright ingenious “Everlong.” They’re going to have one hell of a greatest hits package. And if there ever was a band that needed one, the Foos would be it, since they’ve never managed to make a definitive album. Every single one has been...
Asian-American Jazz Fest at the MCA
By Tim Calkins / November 1, 2002
Asian American Jazz Festival Museum of Contemporary Art Thursday, October 24th Most people do not immediately associate Asian-Americans with jazz, so the appeal of the Seventh Annual Asian-American Jazz Festival in Chicago was somewhat limited. This festival proved that Asian-Americans can play jazz on traditional Asian instruments or traditional jazz instruments and they can play with any type of person. In short, it was great. The festival opened Thursday, October 24 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, downtown. The opening act was an experimental duo of bassist/festival organizer Tatsu Aoki and world-renowned pipa player Wu Man. The pipa is a...
Liam Hayes of Plush: Polar opposites don’t push away
By Jon Garrett / November 1, 2002
For someone who claims he doesn’t listen to music all that much, Liam Hayes is doing a pretty good job making it. As the creative force behind Plush, Hayes has assembled two excellent yet very disparate albums. The first was a plain, somber piano record entitled More You Becomes You, put out by Drag City in 1998 and almost instantly forgotten upon its release. In a slight 28 minutes, Hayes worked his falsetto to brilliant effect as he gently coaxed the melodies from the piano. It’s one of the few genuine triumphs of minimalism I’ve heard in recent years. Rather...
Call for Submissions
By The Maroon Staff / October 29, 2002
The Chicago Literary Review is now accepting submissions. We're looking for essays, reviews, stories, poetry and photography. email clr@uchicago.edu to submit or for more information.
Kill Obscurity
By Bonnie Yap / October 29, 2002
As if the U of C wasn’t scary enough… So it’s Halloween time and you haven’t got any trick-or-treat plans yet? You could always trick-or-treat in Hyde Park, but personally, I’m tired of egging my profs’ houses and getting ramen in my basket from the other students. So here’s some off-campus things you can do this Halloweek. You can go see Evil Dead! The Musical at the RowHouse Theatre on 1138 West Ainslie Street. Take the Red Line to the Argyle or Lawrence stop. Shows are $15 Thursdays through Saturdays at 8 P.M. Think campy, campy, campy. For more info...
My review of Slippage, or, How I Learned to be Indie
By Ben Adams / October 29, 2002
Slobberbone Slippage New West Records The honest truth is that I brought Slobberbone’s Slippage home because no one in the office was going to give it a listen, because Slobberbone is, in the scheme of things, an unfortunately amusing name for a band, and because, in my own mind at least, lead singer Brent Best looks enough like Jack Black that his songs might be funny. This is the honest truth. Let none of this suggest that my reasons for reviewing Slippage weren’t bad ones, not to say vindictive, uninformed ones. I haven’t reviewed an album in these pages since...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / October 29, 2002
Today’s theme: “IDENTITY” Dedicated to Big Money #94 Gerard Warren Letters Department Dear Gerard Warren Don’t take any shit from Tommy TJ Jackson. PS I love you PPS please kill mark brunell Love Pete Dear Veb U tyoed tgus ketter wutgiyt kiijubg at the cionoeter tgher are a lot of tyopos, u an lklooking at you right now. I really like the clash. Greg Olson was the catcher that dan gladden ran into. Two gees not three Dear (Ben) [I typed this letter without looking] at the [computer.] [There] are a lot of [typos. I am] looking at you right...
James and the Giant Peach, now live on stage
By Andrew Lamb / October 29, 2002
Inequity Theatrical Collaboration has put on a menagerie of theatrical whimsies with its recent production of Roald Dahl’s James and the Giant Peach. However, it seems that Inequity has resurrected this timeless classic of children’s literature for rather suspect reasons. Let’s just say that this production is not one to bring the kiddies to. However, if you take your absurdity with a dose of profanity and references to recreational drugs, this one is for you. Dahl’s original story has been modified to some extent. Don’t worry, the little orphan James Trotter’s parents are still murdered by angry rhinoceroses. But instead...
James and the Giant Peach, now live on stage
By Andrew Lamb / October 29, 2002
Inequity Theatrical Collaboration has put on a menagerie of theatrical whimsies with its recent production of Roald Dahl’s James and the Giant Peach. However, it seems that Inequity has resurrected this timeless classic of children’s literature for rather suspect reasons. Let’s just say that this production is not one to bring the kiddies to. However, if you take your absurdity with a dose of profanity and references to recreational drugs, this one is for you. Dahl’s original story has been modified to some extent. Don’t worry, the little orphan James Trotter’s parents are still murdered by angry rhinoceroses. But instead...
Adam Sisman on Boswell, success, and the next book
By Tom Zimpleman / October 29, 2002
Although “writers on writing” is a popular theme for articles, lectures, and conferences, the writers in question are nearly always talking about themselves or the topic of writing in great abstraction. While interesting, such discussions tend to be carefully guarded and, more often than not, unavailing. What’s more, the interpretation of literature seems to place almost no emphasis on the author’s purpose and process in writing the book. In the reading of fiction, such disregard for background information can be justified by theoretical conceits about the death of the author and the mystical disappearance of texts from classrooms. In nonfiction,...
Flaming Lips, Beck rock Chicago to its very foundations
By Mario Diaz-Perez / October 25, 2002
On Friday, October 18, the Chicago Theatre was awakened by the sounds of Flaming Lips and Beck. It was a special show because the Flaming Lips not only opened for Beck, but also served as his backup band. Beck came out with an acoustic guitar and played a few songs from his somber break up album, Sea Change. The Flaming Lips then played almost the rest of the show with him. Although the Flaming Lips’ melodic and synth-friendly style of playing was a great compliment to both Beck’s old and new songs, it would have been nice to hear more...
What’s The Matter With Arts And Entertainment?
By Tom Zimpleman / October 25, 2002
Trendspotters would do well to note that some of the best rock music released in America today comes from artists who may not call themselves rock musicians. There’s currently something of a renaissance in pop music. My use of “pop” in the context of this erstwhile renaissance doesn’t include the Avril Lavignes and Vanessa Carltons that those insolent foreigners – the Vines and the Hives – have arrived to protect us from. “Pop” in this context means simply those musicians who are unashamed of the catchiness of their songs. Their goal in creating an album is not to subtly convey...
Voices Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / October 25, 2002
The Washdown hail from Tampa, Florida—not exactly known as a breeding ground for good bands. But this limber punk outfit successfully defies the odds on their debut EP, recently released by reputable indie label Lookout! Records (Green Day, Pretty Girls Make Graves). Unlike the syrupy, My Bloody Valentine-inspired dream pop that seems to be par for the course on the local scene, the Washdown pay tribute to the early post-punk era, specifically Wire. Their frenetic melodies wrap neatly around the shouted refrains of vocalist Ryan Hess, producing a nervous yet energetic take on the patented paradigm. And much like their...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / October 25, 2002
Tips for tots: do not, if you can help it, steal your research assistant’s Instant Messenger lover once an evening of $4 pitchers at the Cove leaves you at your assistant’s computer at 3 a.m., unless you want, subsequently, to have to spend time—time better spent coming up with trademark tweakings of clichés—researching portions of your column so that you can say something like: Everyone loves burritos at 4 A.M. Back in the 20th century, when there was only one Maravilla’s, and it was out on 63rd and St. Louis, a review of the restaurant said that, even with the...
Piano students given a chance to learn from a master
By Anne Lovering Rounds / October 25, 2002
The notion of a master class isn’t exactly relaxing. Imagine taking a music lesson from a stranger. Now imagine playing your lesson piece from memory in front of an audience. The master class experience has the potential to combine the two things many musicians fear most: public performance and heartless criticism. Even the name sounds intimidating, as though some tyrant with superior knowledge of the instrument will ruthlessly expose the musical shortcomings of his underlings. Luckily, events run by the University’s Music Department don’t work that way. On October 17, when Ball State’s music professor Robert Palmer gave a piano...
The Venice Baroque Orchestra performs at Mandel
By Elaine Seggerman / October 25, 2002
As the first few bars of The Four Seasons were chimed pertly and triumphantly on Friday night, one was torn between two emotions. The first was an overwhelming feeling of smugness and satisfaction: there we all were, snugly ensconced between other discriminating members of the audience (who as usual, skewed heavily towards elderly and intellectual-looking patricians), letting the easy beauty and irresistible harmonic appeal of this veritable icon of listener popularity waft over us. This, presumably, is classical music in its ideal form for most people: none of your unnecessary violence, bombast, or discordance, thank you; just lovely, accessible music...
The Truth About Charlie is that the original is still better
By Joseph N. Liss / October 25, 2002
Stanley Donen’s Charade (1963) was one of those star powered, foreign scenery thrillers, where the audience knew they were watching entertainment; it was a big, colorful production with universally loved actors (Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn) and a story whose engaging twists and turns never threatened the certainty of a happy ending. It’s one of those movies where everyone is constantly revealing that they’re secret agents and have another “real” name, the kind of movie that the audience knows to be merely fun stagecraft; the kind of movie that was not intended to be taken seriously then and cannot be...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / October 22, 2002
Axes to grind (1, 2, 3, 4) 1º What is the significance of L.A.K.E.S.(1)? Read before even attempting to touch my shit: http://geography.about.com/library/weekly/aa030298.htm http://www.glc.org/announce/02/01-02stclair.html http://www.timeforkids.com/TFK/magazines/story/0,6277,90798,00.html Epigram U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, the St. Joseph Republican, whose Michigan district runs along the shoreline of a real Great Lake, calls the designation “crazy” and also “sneaky.”(2) dramatis personae (something I’ve been working on) Lake Superior: king of all the lakes (superior means “kingly”) Lake Huron: The mayor of lake town, q.e.d. Lake Michigan: The railroad tycoon of the lakes? Lake Erie: the young Turk of lakes? A lake-about-town, then. Lake Ontario: Secretary of...
“Student film” murderously bad in more than one way
By Joseph N. Liss / October 22, 2002
The Ring directed by Gore Verbinski DreamWorks Pictures, 115 minutes There is little point in accusing a horror film of implausibility. A plausible horror film is called a suspense film, such as Psycho, the Silence of the Lambs, or Panic Room, though these all possess their share of the implausible. The Ring blends supernatural horror and investigative suspense to produce a mode of paranoia shared only by the very best episodes of The X-Files. Nifty premise: there is a videotape, and anyone who watches it receives a death threat by phone the very minute it’s over. We must accept from...
A meaningless movement, and a movie script ending
By Tom Zimpleman / October 22, 2002
Heaven Directed by Tom Tykwer Miramax Films, 96 minutes Turin is famous for being the site of Nietzsche’s nervous breakdown. It was in the central piazza of that part of Italy that the philosopher threw himself on a horse being viciously beaten by its owner, pleading for mercy on behalf of the animal. The irony involved in a man whose work viewed sympathy and pity as hindrances to his moral and intellectual advancement being undone by an uncontrollable outpouring of those very emotions has not been lost on subsequent commentators. I don’t know if the makers of Heaven were aware...
Reflections on the Bayou
By Ben Adams / October 22, 2002
Profile: Infinite Reflections Infinite Reflections, the University of Chicago’s first definitive album about movies, is making its return. Devin Sandoz and Liam Singer, the songsters who brought us “It Could Happen to You,” “Dennis the Menace,” and, unforgettably, “Shine,” are up to their old tricks in a new location. The U of C’s half of the band, Sandoz, will be celebrating the release of Infinite Reflections 2: The Bayou with a performance this coming Friday at the Blue Gargoyle, before the Off-Off Campus show. It will be the third Infinite Reflections show since the first release, during the summer of...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / October 22, 2002
The northern Virginia “sniper” has killed nine people and wounded three in the past 20 days. And all this time, two people have been foremost in my mind: Don DeLillo and Thomas Harris. Please don’t think me insensitive.This is what English majors do when we’re cornered: run to the written word. To call DeLillo prescient is like calling Rage Against the Machine angry, or Kurt Cobain dead: true as far as it goes, but ultimately an insufficient way of approaching his work. Post September 11, post Bali, his concentration on terrorism as lingua franca of world culture in The Names...
The Frames: Playing songs, not just assembling bikes
By Jerrin Zumberg / October 18, 2002
This past weekend, the Frames passed through Chicago, unbeknownst to most of its eight million residents. With a show at the Metro on Saturday night and a solo performance by lead singer Glen Hansard at the Hideout on Sunday, those that were in attendance witnessed the artistic brilliance of a true musical performance. Though they perform for tens of thousands in Ireland and just as many in Eastern Europe, the Frames’ popularity is only sprinkled throughout the United States. Frequenting small venues, like the Hideout here in Chicago or Arlene’s Grocery in Manhattan, the Frames may be quite possibly the...
Can Michael Moore stop the neverending fear?
By Mark Torma / October 18, 2002
Bowling for Columbine Directed by Michael Moore United Artists 120 minutes Michael Moore’s newest documentary, Bowling for Columbine, makes a stirring argument for a new and honest debate on the use of guns in the United States. The film also marks a new stage in the career of the floppy, rotund, muckraking, rabble-rousing filmmaker from Flint, Michigan. Bowling for Columbine does follow the trails blazed by his two previous documentaries, Roger and Me and The Big One: there’s plenty of blame left at the doorsteps of corporate monoliths like Kmart, arguably misguided interest groups like the NRA, and the less...
So alive…so alive…soul live… Soulive!
By Sean Anderson / October 18, 2002
Soulive The House of Blues October 12, 2002 What could be better than truly feeling the vibe of the audience around you at a live show? Yes, I know, people always say, “oh man, we could totally feel the audience,” “there was something shared between everyone,” or “we were all on the same wavelength, it was awesome.” At the House of Blues on October 12, though, were literally were hundreds of people all feeling the same vibe, and this was accomplished by the buoyant hardwood floors that swayed, sunk, and rose to each and every step of the mesmerized crowd,...
Voices Local Spotlight: The Sixty-Eights
By M. K. Wong / October 18, 2002
You can tell a lot about a band by where it hangs out. On most weeknights, the Cove seems like a dodgy sports-bar. But that is its sole appeal. It’s a neighborhood bar that appeals to neighborhood people, and not the usual U of C clientele. From the first greeting of the bouncer to your first drink, there is something palpably unpretentious about this whole place. Sixty-eights prefer The Cove. A self-professed “goofy band,” it is heavily influenced by seminal punk-rock groups like The Clash and Sex Pistols. Even its name, Sixty-eights, refers to the year when the managers of...
Liverpool, Denver, and Portland: An old rock triangle
By Mario Diaz-Perez / October 18, 2002
Clinic w/ Apples in Stereo and the Standard Metro October 12, 2002 Last Saturday night, the newly popular Liverpool band Clinic played to a sold-out crowd at the Metro. Opening for the band were the pop-edged Apples in Stereo and the Standard, a somber and darkly melodic quintet. The contrast in styles between the bands provided a musically diverse evening and the entire event was a very well performed and arranged small-venue show. Clinic’s roots are far more diverse than those of any other band out there right now. Their percussion is a hybrid of computer drum loops and tom-tom...
Punch-Drunk Love director needs a good punch or two
By Eric Park / October 18, 2002
Punch-Drunk Love Directed by P.T. Anderson Columbia Pictures 89 minutes The headline of a recent New York Times article hails Paul Thomas Anderson “A Poet of Love.” In an industry where every word of print and mouth equals a measure of relevance and commercial viability in Pop Culture, that one is likely to hit you with a solid bang on every ad coming to a TV spot near you. And it won’t exactly be just any quote, it’ll be the goddamn New York Times quote, that singular institution before which you are required to kowtow by the dictates of the...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / October 18, 2002
What kind of total disregard Down, down, you bring me down I hear you knocking down my Door and I can’t sleep at night Now, this is not to say that the government runs the media. That’s absurd. We all know that a moneyed cabal of seventeen old, white men run the media. Only one or two of them are in the government. Yet in times of national crisis—or, rather, in times that should call for crisis—it’s always interesting to see what the media offers us instead. Last summer, for example, among many “newsworthy” issues (crumbling economy, failure to break...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / October 18, 2002
The Streets Original Pirate Material Vice Records Mike Skinner is a white British rapper. Let’s back up. Mike Skinner is British—like tea and crumpets—but he raps about “pushing things forward” and “memories fading, soldiers slaying” and a bunch of other poetic shit. And he does it fast, spits like Em might if he didn’t have such a chip on his shoulder about being white. Skinner, who refers to himself and his musical project as The Streets, apparently doesn’t have such hang-ups. He’s happy to be a white Brit and make his hip-hop. Insecurity about creed, something that has plagued white...
The Strokes: A colloquium
By Jon Garrett / October 15, 2002
The Strokes @ the Aragon Ballroom J: First off, Voices hates stadium shows as a general rule. Arena shows and anything even remotely related to a cavernous venue teeming with obnoxious concert goers usually get the thumbs down as well. The Aragon is about as close to such a venue as one can get without actually being one. There are no designated seats or obstructed views, but you can get a hot dog with your rock n’ roll and a Miller Lite shower before you leave. Truth be told, The Aragon bears a distinct resemblance to Medieval Times®, only without...
Bret Easton Ellis still sucks, movie sucks a little less
By Joseph N. Liss / October 15, 2002
The Rules of Attraction Directed by Roger Avary Lion’s Gate Films 110 minutes Read almost any paragraph of Bret Easton Ellis, whether from a novel or from a blurb on the back of another writer’s novel, and you will see the embodiment of a particularly hysterical episode in American literature. His prose is constantly strained, loud, hyperbolic, and decked out with frantic razzle-dazzle, as if he is mounting a desperate assault upon his own mediocrity. He is a writer with a cause. He wants to expose the moral vacuum in the hearts of America’s young people, the dark inertia lurking...
Bret Easton Ellis still sucks, movie sucks a little less
By Joseph N. Liss / October 15, 2002
The Rules of Attraction Directed by Roger Avary Lion’s Gate Films 110 minutes Read almost any paragraph of Bret Easton Ellis, whether from a novel or from a blurb on the back of another writer’s novel, and you will see the embodiment of a particularly hysterical episode in American literature. His prose is constantly strained, loud, hyperbolic, and decked out with frantic razzle-dazzle, as if he is mounting a desperate assault upon his own mediocrity. He is a writer with a cause. He wants to expose the moral vacuum in the hearts of America’s young people, the dark inertia lurking...
Guarneri Quartet kicks off U of C Presents Series
By Christian Kraus / October 15, 2002
Many silly things have been written on Beethoven’s Quartet in A minor. Most (in)famously, numerous 19th century commentators made much of Beethoven’s supposed illness at the time of its composition, and in projecting what may be true of the slow movement onto the quartet as a whole, viewed it as program music on a sluggish process of sickness and healing. Detailed references to musical illustrations of frozen trembling and the groaning of the sufferer marked the more hilarious side of such readings, while others preferred to bathe in the supreme ‘harmoniousness’ of the minuet, or alternatively the ‘wonderful unity’ of...
Musician goes to Europe…
By Tom Zimpleman / October 15, 2002
I’ll wager that more than a few Squirrel Bait cultists walked through this hallowed institution during the 90s without realizing that a member of that band was laboring as a graduate student in the English department. I’ll further wager that more than a few Gastr del Sol fans were unaware of the same fact. Finally, I’ll wager that the respective fans of each band, listening to a release by the other, would not initially guess the connection between them. Welcome, friends and sympathizers, to the world of David Grubbs. His early work on the Louisville post-punk scene – with Squirrel...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / October 15, 2002
Dear Diary fourteen October 2002 I’m told that Foul Tips might allegedly be explaining this AS WE SPEAK, but the fact of the matter: The Angels are incredibly good at baseball. Bad on everybody for not noticing and doing something to prevent the Angels from being good or at least destroying the city of Anaheim, preferably using some kind of lethal slime monster, prior to this writing. Also worth noting as regards the Anaheim Angels: The amounts of karmic good will accumulated by the Angels by destroying the Yankees should have lasted them until approximately 9000 years in the future....
Pavement’s debut redux
By Pete Beatty / October 15, 2002
Pavement Slanted & Enchanted: Luxe & Reduxe Matador Records Luxe & Reduxe is a curious reissue—Slanted itself is a mere ten years old, and while the tidiness of a ten-years-later reissue is neat, the argument remains as to whether or not it’s entirely necessary. Pavement completists likely own almost everything, although it’s obvious that no one owns the previously unreleased material from the 1992 recording sessions, which is the only thing that makes the reissue worth owning. The 14 original tracks, plus Watery, Domestic, plus b-sides from the “Summer Babe” and “Trigger Cut” singles, two Peel sessions, outtakes from Slanted...
VOICES versus the ravers
By Yoshi Salaverry / August 16, 2002
Don’t try to fight it. Admit to yourself that you think inch for inch, and pound for pound, who needs IDM when there’s acid trance around? Well now. Some of us wouldn’t actually say that, and not just for fear of embarrassment. Some of us prefer the crystalline melodies of µ-ziq to the thumping back-end bass of John Dickweed, the skittering beats of Autechre to the Sasha. Unfortunately there were few who shared my loyalties at the Nesh Party two weeks ago at the Metro. Oh, sure. To even attend a concert comprised solely of artists from Warp Records must...
Sleater-Kinney takes on success, September 11
By James Liu / August 16, 2002
One Beat Sleater-Kinney Kill Rock Stars A lot has happened since Sleater-Kinney’s All Hands on the Bad One release in 2000. Time magazine named them “America’s Best Rock Band”. Corin Tucker had a baby named Marshal Tucker Bangs. Carrie has been working on an independent movie called “Group.” September 11th happened. Yet, no output from the band. That’s about to change on August 20th,when they release the much anticipated One Beat. If you have a good computer, you can already hear the album on their website, www.killrockstars.com/sleater-kinney/. With the return of producer John Goodmanson from the Dig Me Out days,...
Brilliant disc-changer plan foiled by mediocre Flaming Lips album
By Jon Garrett / August 16, 2002
Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots The Flaming Lips Warner Brothers Records I had finally had enough of the jewel cases cluttering my room. So right before I moved away for college, I invested in a multi-disc changer—more specifically, one that would hold 110 albums. I figured this would alleviate my space problems, and for a time it did. But now that I’ve easily got upwards of 500 CDs, I’m pretty much back to square one. CD cases are everywhere and, if anything, I’m spending more time in front of the player now. There’s more turnover than I ever had with...
Gursky’s mastery of his craft on display at special MCA exhibit
By Tom Mullaney / August 9, 2002
Andreas Gursky is one hot photographer. His work has been featured in Time, The New York Times, and all the right art publications. We’ve read that his photographs are large and in vivid color, yet the printed word inadequately prepares museum patrons for the experience they will have at the Museum of Contemporary Art (the exhibition runs through September 29). Enter the vast space of the Bergman Gallery’s first room and only three photographs are in view. One is a seven by ten foot print of a hotel in Shanghai saturated in the most breathtaking yellow; another is nearly seven...
Full Frontal: No, it’s not what you think
By Tom Zimpleman / August 9, 2002
Full Frontal Stephen Soderbergh Miramax The connection between the movies and reality preoccupies Steven Soderbergh’s Full Frontal. Questions about the topic abound: What constitutes a movie? What happens to the real-life elements of directors, actors, and screenwriters that seep into their work? How do we make sense of the difference between an actor’s personality and those of the characters he plays? Most importantly, can a movie ever present its audience with a genuinely honest moment, a moment untainted by the tricks of writers, the interpretations of actors, the techniques of directors, and the demands of producers? Soderbergh’s deep engagement with...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / August 2, 2002
All-Time Quarterback All-Time Quarterback Barsuk Records Ben Gibbard, best known as the lead singer of Death Cab for Cutie, recorded the eleven songs on this album as a solo project during one of the group’s slack periods back in 1999.This album is in fact a compilation of two EPs previously released on Elsinor Records: The Envelop Sessions, which Gibbard recorded live to a Walkman with just his acoustic guitar for accompaniment, and the ¡All-Time Quarterback! EP, which he recorded in a studio in Bellingham, Washington and released shortly after The Envelop Sessions. One can easily notice the absence of Christopher...
Aloha: They’re not Hawaiian
By Tom Zimpleman / August 2, 2002
Sugar Aloha Polyvinyl Records I don’t know if Cleveland, Ohio experimentalists Aloha have stumbled onto anything that might become the future of rock music on their sophomore album, Sugar. I do know that the album likely will not lift the band into the stratosphere of popularity, nor will it even give them the luxury of selling out club dates from coast-to-coast. At the very least, however, I’m sure that in five years time some relatively popular young band will try to distill the essence of Aloha, assuming they can find it, into radio-friendly tunes with a strong musical base, and...
Ash: The Voices Interview
By Jon Garrett / August 2, 2002
It’s the same old story, really. A band that’s huge in England and in other countries across the globe, try as they might, can’t seem to get a break in America. Despite the fact that Ash has released enough superlative pop singles over the course of their three proper albums to rival any band’s best-of compilation, they’ve gone without much notice in this country. In this case, it’s yet another story of bad timing, evil corporations, and a lobotomized public. But while other bands eventually give up and go home, Ash isn’t taking no for an answer. After ill-fated stints...
At least their live material kills
By Jon Garrett / August 2, 2002
The Kills / Butcher Holler / Radio Vago @The Silverlake Lounge, Los Angeles July 18 It was estrogen overload at the Silverlake Lounge on Thursday evening. The bill featured three bands fronted by women and the first opener, Radio Vago, had an all-female lineup. It’s no secret that rock n’ roll, especially that of the indie-rock persuasion, is a horribly sexist institution. So I’m happy to report that there was a very healthy turnout for such an x-chromosome-laden rotation, not to mention the fact that it was a late show on a work night. Radio Vago are a very promising...
Aloha: They’re not Hawaiian
By Tom Zimpleman / August 2, 2002
Sugar Aloha Polyvinyl Records I don’t know if Cleveland, Ohio experimentalists Aloha have stumbled onto anything that might become the future of rock music on their sophomore album, Sugar. I do know that the album likely will not lift the band into the stratosphere of popularity, nor will it even give them the luxury of selling out club dates from coast-to-coast. At the very least, however, I’m sure that in five years time some relatively popular young band will try to distill the essence of Aloha, assuming they can find it, into radio-friendly tunes with a strong musical base, and...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / August 2, 2002
All-Time Quarterback All-Time Quarterback Barsuk Records Ben Gibbard, best known as the lead singer of Death Cab for Cutie, recorded the eleven songs on this album as a solo project during one of the group’s slack periods back in 1999.This album is in fact a compilation of two EPs previously released on Elsinor Records: The Envelop Sessions, which Gibbard recorded live to a Walkman with just his acoustic guitar for accompaniment, and the ¡All-Time Quarterback! EP, which he recorded in a studio in Bellingham, Washington and released shortly after The Envelop Sessions. One can easily notice the absence of Christopher...
Dear Diary with Mr. Pete Beatty
By Pete Beatty / July 26, 2002
I’ll ask you politely to check out the hot new v.3 Dear Diary graphical user interface. For those reading on the Internet, a group comprised solely of me and my dad, well, I’ll mail it to you. It’s a horrible world we live in. Most people wake up five days out of seven and drag their ugly ass to a room full of other ugly asses relatively far away, often spending an hour and a half in traffic simply to arrive on time to a job they hate. Once you’re at work, you have either too much or not enough...
Stripes open garage door
By Whet Moser / July 26, 2002
We arrived a bit late for the show, partly because we were at a bar, and partly because we hadn’t had the opportunity to hear some clips from the opening act, the Clone Defects,1 and their name seemed a bit off-putting. It was kind of a shame. I caught their last song, a punked-up soul number “dedicated to Otis Redding,” by a lead singer/guitarist who looked eerily like Terry Bradshaw, and ripped out by three other extremely sketchy-looking guys. It didn’t quite destroy the audience, but at least pushed it around a bit. It was loud and unintelligible with a...
Tomine’s Summer Blonde no romp on the beach
By Nasia Anam / July 26, 2002
Upon acquisition of Adrian Tomine’s most recent collection of Optic Nerve Comics, Summer Blonde, I was fairly peeing in my pants with excitement. Those who are familiar with Tomine’s work will probably tell you that Optic Nerve does not necessarily warrant spontaneous urination—the slow, quiet movement of each story would more likely induce a deep, full sigh from your average fan—but there I was, crossing my legs. Tomine has been publishing his comic since the age of sixteen, when it was just a lowly, xeroxed zine. Now he is 27, and Optic Nerve has long been part of the Drawn...
Road to Perdition does not cut through cute Gump Forest
By Mark Torma / July 19, 2002
What would Hollywood do without Tom Hanks? Without him, the acting establishment might forget to actually act once in a while. While a poseur like Tom Cruise is supposedly “taking chances with his career” by taking a small step to the right (that’s the direction of the Dark Side) in “edgy” roles in Eyes Wide Shut and Vanilla Sky, Tom Hanks is running all the way to the edge of morality in roles like the one he has in Road to Perdition. Long live bad King Tom! O.K., I overstate things a bit. No rational human will ever confuse Hanks’s...
ANTA BAKA
By Yoshi Salaverry / July 19, 2002
What was sentiment before Hallmark? What was emotion before fluffy pastel bunnies cradled pink bubble letters that read “Get Well Soon”? Nobody knows. We’re in the grips of collective amnesia. “Sentimentality” has become all but synonymous with “sappiness” for a culture precariously balanced on the razor-thin line between disgust and outright apathy. Most people don’t care to pursue that line. Rather than strenuously following that tightrope to its terminus, most would rather spare themselves the effort and sit down for an ironic film and an unironic bag of Fritos. Nonetheless, there are a handful of artists and people who seem...
Shortcuts
By Tom Zimpleman / July 19, 2002
The Californian Sunday’s Best Polyvinyl Records Any listeners unable to tell from the title of this LP that Sunday’s Best are from Los Angeles will quickly be clued in by the heavy ’70s West Coast influences. While it may be trendy to claim that your band follows the lead of groups like Television or the Stooges, not many musicians are willing to own up to taking their cues from Fleetwood Mac. If nothing else, then, you have to admire the courage of a group like Sunday’s Best, who shed their indie-rock beginnings in favor of the relaxed studio-based style that...
Time and tragedy explored in Angel Rock
By Tom Zimpleman / July 12, 2002
A few references to the Apollo 11 mission in Darren Williams’s Angel Rock establish that the book is set in the winter of 1969-1970, or properly the summer of 1969-1970, since the book takes place in its author’s native Australia. The moon landing has no significance for the events described here, and Williams references it only to tell us that one of the book’s main characters, thirteen year-old Tom Ferry, has a fascination with space flight. The proper time is in fact no time: given the way the dead appear and reappear, and ancient grudges hold sway over events in...
Prom still painful
By Tom Zimpleman / July 12, 2002
The Prom Under the Same Stars Barsuk Records James Mendenhall, lead singer and songwriter of the Prom, was not a happy man when the group recorded their second LP, Under the Same Stars. Of the ten songs on the album with lyrical content, all ten describe romance gone wrong. There are several sub-genres of the venerable pop music stand-by known as “romance gone wrong,” of course: there are songs about unrequited love, songs about intense love that burns itself out, and songs that brag about a supposed emotional recovery. Mendenhall traffics here in a very specific sub-genre: romances where the...
F#$%ing predictable
By Pete Beatty / July 12, 2002
The Fucking Champs V Drag City Records If you’re reading this, you probably have some idea who the Fucking Champs are, so I’ll skip the boring Record Review 101 crap and get started right away. Just in case: Fucking Champs are a instrumental heavy metal band who cater to an indie rock audience. There may or may not be a wink. I cannot find the wink, but that does not mean the wink is not there. V begins with the two-part “Never Enough Neck” suite, which sounds an awful lot like the first two tracks on the Champs’ IV, which...
Dear Diary with Mr. Pete Beatty
By Pete Beatty / July 12, 2002
It happens in half-moments, I guess. A trip to the bathroom. Catching your own reflection in a car window. Thinking about forging signatures. A realization that your things are not what they used to be. Hate for everyone may be winning its long tussle with good manners. Beer. Beers. Cough drops, cheeseburgers. Transition. If you skip ahead about 270 words, you get to the point where the dark cloud lifted from my eyes. This happened after I found out that Bryan Joiner met Kenny Mayne at the US Open ballboy try-outs. Today has been a mixture of alternately denying and...
Type Slowly
By Whet Moser / July 12, 2002
I’m going to sound potentially inhumane for saying this, but I can’t read the New York Times’s “Portraits of Grief” anymore. I can’t bear it. It’s not that it causes me to grieve excessively. I can’t read it because it’s a failure: it may have seemed like a good idea at the time, but during its execution it evolved into the opposite of a good idea. If you don’t obsessively read nytimes.com, or put down the money for a subscription, “Portraits of Grief” is a project to write an obituary for everyone who died in the collapse of the World...
Off the suck-o-meter
By Jon Garrett / July 12, 2002
Off the Record by David Menconi www.offtherecordbook.com David Menconi has attempted to set the record straight about the record business with Off the Record, a sort of non-fiction story about a fictitious band. But who knew telling the truth could be such a perfunctory exercise? Off the Record has been touted as a sort of exposé of the music industry, a tell-all account of its heinous practices and profit-mongering scams. But for all the bluster, the book is surprisingly predictable. In fact, anyone with even the most generalized knowledge of the music business should find himself in fairly familiar territory....
Pretentious Scots aren’t as pretentious as we heard
By Sarah Sung / July 8, 2002
Mogwai has always made a point of expressing their contempt for Brit-Pop. If you’ve ever seen the shirts that read “Blur: are shite” and not known who was responsible, now you know it’s Mogwai; these post-rock Scots claimed that they could scientifically prove that Blur are shite. Whatever. If you’re stupid enough to want one of those shirts, you can visit their official website, where front man Stuart Braithwaite’s most recent message to the public suggests that Sting should drink cyanide and asks “all the religious psychopaths” to discontinue writing to the band. Instead, he proposes that fans should “Try...
Latest from Silkworm is good times for all involved
By Pete Beatty / July 8, 2002
For some reason, Silkworm got tagged as the next Pavement about five years ago. It’s hard to explain exactly why. Both have eight letter names and hail from the west coast, and I guess they’re both indie rock bands, and Stephen Malkmus did play a few shows with the gents from Silkworm as “The Crust Brothers” back in the early late ’90s. But other than that the two bands don’t really have very much in common, other than a shared affinity for the collected work of Creedence Clearwater Revival. And beer. And I guess both bands are technically from out-of-the-way...
The Hair Police take a moment to chat with Voices
By Tim Aher / July 8, 2002
Tim Aher Voices Staff If you went to the Festival of the Arts Damaged Music Show this spring, you’ll recognize Hair Police from their violent, frenzied set, which featured probably more shirtless writhing and irresponsible, spontaneous use of pyrotechnics than the Divinity School building will ever see again. Singer and bassist Mike Connelly, who also runs the tape label Gods of Tundra, was kind enough to offer Voices the following interview. Of course we’re going to plug not only their new CD Blow Out Your Blood, on Minneapolis’s Freedom From label, but also their upcoming show at the Empty Bottle...
Heaven, I need a better comeback single than this
By Whet Moser / July 8, 2002
So it was about 4:30 a.m. here in the office when Pete & I finally acquired an mp3 of “Heaven I Need a Hug,” R. Kelly’s unfortunately titled new single. Better yet it was a radio rip, the DJ fading in over the outro to announce, “that’s hot—I’m feelin’ this. A whole lot.” We were feelin’ it too. I threw a rod laughing. Maybe it was the time of the morning. Maybe I should feel bad about it. What he most likely did (1) was admittedly pretty bad on legal, moral and aesthetic levels.(2) But on some level, this is...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / July 8, 2002
Life and Death of an American Fourtracker John Vanderslice Barsuk Records John Vanderslice’s new concept album, swiftly following last year’s Time Travel is Lonely, has the former MK-Ultra member and erstwhile folk guru chronicling a musician’s decline and fall through his surviving home recordings. One would expect an album whose subject produced his music privately and cheaply to have a lo-fi aesthetic similar to the protagonist’s, but that’s not the case here. These songs have a noticeably professional quality—complete with horns, strings, back-up vocals, and special cameos from members of Spoon and Death Cab for Cutie. Everything about this record...
Dear Diary with Mr. Pete Beatty
By Pete Beatty / July 8, 2002
Dear Diary Birthday Edition 2002 Birthday coming up. For those of you currently in funds, I would like: 1. Turntable 2. New shoes 3. A nice hat 4. A slightly less nice but a still very nice second hat and matching handkerchief 5. A Biggie-sized dog. Basset hound, IFF you’re in it for the long haul. 6. If you can, get João Pinto to hang out with me for a day and maybe even punch me in the left belly region. 7. Size 7 7/8 Montreal Expos hat (have big head, sorry) MY proposed Doc Films series 1. The films...
Ben Folds coming dangerously close to irrelevance
By Tom Zimpleman / July 8, 2002
Not popular enough to be a bona fide star, yet too popular to be a cult figure, Ben Folds has always been something of a conundrum. He’s plainly uninterested in Top-40 success: he hasn’t disowned his one modest hit—”Brick,” a single from his days fronting Ben Folds Five—but he buries it at the end of his live sets and all but apologizes before playing it. Superficially, he’s equally disinterested in nurturing a passionate following of record geeks. Not only did he mock them in “Underground,” an early Ben Folds Five single, he’ll freely admit his affinity for embarrassing ’80s pop...
The Vines: The rock revival rolls on
By Jon Garrett / June 28, 2002
Highly Evolved is everything a debut album from a great band should be: far from perfect but never a wasted mistake. Like almost any band on their first official full-length, the Vines are sorely lacking in originality. The best moments all faintly echo the ghosts of other bands. But unlike say, Puddle of Mudd, or countless other grunge clones cluttering the radio today, the Vines don’t come off as content to play the tribute band. Rather, I get the feeling that the Vines are trying to convert their obvious influences into something wholly unique—even if they’re still in that awkward...
Once again, animation outshines humanity
By Tom Zimpleman / June 28, 2002
This movie capitalizes on three developments in American culture. First, it takes place in a quiet suburb during the 1970s, à la cult favorite The Virgin Suicides. Second, it gives comic books literary and artistic credibility, à la Michael Chabon’s The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay. Third, its title recalls the publicity surrounding certain Catholic cardinals’ attempts to cover up allegations of sexual abuse against young parishioners. Huh, do you get it? They live a “dangerous life” in the sense that they constantly have to dodge molestation. See, the priest presents a constant “danger” that makes the “lives” of...
The Bourne Identity: Talent assembles to kill time
By Tom Zimpleman / June 28, 2002
A few years ago, someone writing in American Heritage’s “Overrated/Underrated” issue called Robert Ludlum’s The Bourne Identity the most underrated spy thriller of all time. Judgments like “most underrated” are tricky because by the time one gets around to noticing the single most underrated whatever—a band, a spy thriller, a baseball front office—it’s no longer actually underrated but mildly overrated. In terms of spy thrillers, then, the makers of The Bourne Identity were approaching something like hallowed ground, or as close as you can come to hallowed ground with a book sold primarily in airports. Adapting the book was thus...
The Vines: The rock revival rolls on
By Jon Garrett / June 28, 2002
Highly Evolved is everything a debut album from a great band should be: far from perfect but never a wasted mistake. Like almost any band on their first official full-length, the Vines are sorely lacking in originality. The best moments all faintly echo the ghosts of other bands. But unlike say, Puddle of Mudd, or countless other grunge clones cluttering the radio today, the Vines don’t come off as content to play the tribute band. Rather, I get the feeling that the Vines are trying to convert their obvious influences into something wholly unique—even if they’re still in that awkward...
ANTA BAKA w/ Yoshi Salaverry
By Online Editor / May 10, 2002
For the discerning gourmand in search of a tasty truffle to accompany afternoon tea, or the sophisticate yearning for a delicious beverage to complement his fruit drops, the article before you is offered as a rough sketch of the enchanting realm of European culinary delights—sweet, sour, and otherwise. Belgium Looza Blackcurrant nectar: This charming drink comes in a diminutive glass bottle (6.7 fl. oz.) shaped like a rounded bullet, which works nicely with Looza’s ’70s aesthetic. Upon unscrewing the fermeture de securité, a queer odor of fermented fruit wafts to the consumer’s nose. Pungently wine-like, the scent foreshadows the sour...
Kill Obscurity
By The Maroon Staff / May 10, 2002
I hate the idea of being accessorized. I loathe those little accessory shops, and if I ever thought that I would have a closet devoted to shoes or ever go on an accessory shopping expedition, I would probably keel over out of self-hatred. One exception, and I pray that this is the least disgusting way to “accessorize”: fruit drinks. I don’t even know why I think that fruit drinks would count as accessories. But if you have ever been to the motherlands of all fruit drinks (Southern California), those chiseled and tanned girls tout their jumbo Jamba Juices as a...
Voices STD
By Garth Johnston / May 10, 2002
Friday May 10th Did you like Welcome to the Doll House? I didn’t. And I really didn’t like Happiness. But curiosity keeps me going, so I’m probably going to end up at Doc tonight checking out Storytelling, the new movie by Todd Solondz (who directed the aforementioned movies). Plus, who doesn’t want to see a black man have anal sex with a bleached-blonde Selma Blair? Before that though, I plan on checking out this week’s installment of Off Off and the Riddle of the Sphinx: this week we’re going to learn “What happens after college?” and if it’s anywhere near...
Album Review: Alice and Blood Money by Tom Waits
By Chris Seet / May 10, 2002
Tom Waits banks on the unexpected. His own style, as varied as it is indefinable, changes with the weather. Each new change though, however drastic, is no less or more true to Waits’s body of work than the last, nor does it seem to contradict the artist’s own patchwork persona. Indeed, Waits is one of those rare artists who gets better with age, each new venture blending with the last. In this fashion, while his last album, 1999’s Mule Variations, was a thorough tribute to dusty Americana, his two new albums, released simultaneously this week, are lavishly Victorian and macabre....
Cellist Janos Starker plays U of C
By Cecil Vyse / May 10, 2002
The U of C Presents featured internationally renowned cellist Janos Starker last Friday in the last chamber concert of their season. It was quite a success. By the time I arrived, an hour early or so, the concert was long sold out, and a throng of well-dressed, distinguished-looking personages (the majority of whom were indeed basking in their twilight years) could already be seen loitering about the Reynolds Club. As this venerable assemblage drifted to their seats, there was a great deal of excitement, and the crowd was simply starving, yes, ravenous for aesthetic satisfaction. Unfortunately, it did not look...
The New Critic
By Nick Tymoczako / May 7, 2002
When given the chance to interview Rivers Cuomo, the lead singer of, and chief creative force behind, Weezer, I jumped with a start, shaking my head, scratching my ears, and ruffling my hair. As my arms ceased to flail and my balance returned, I began formulating a lists of advanced questions along with a series of possible assorted wardrobic assemblages in which to adorn myself for that destined day. The following, a question-and-answer session – an interview, if you will – though really just a friendly chat, grew out of the events of that great day. Me: I like the...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / May 7, 2002
Once upon a time, there was a young British band named Radiohead. Like many aspiring rock groups their age, they weren’t quite sure of their identity yet, but they were a talented bunch and, more importantly, they knew they wanted a record deal. The band got their wish in 1994 when they signed to Capitol Records. The resulting debut album, Pablo Honey, was a competent if fairly conventional entry into the grunge rock sweepstakes, yielding the worldwide smash hit “Creep” and a collective yawn from critics. I mention this story not because MOTH sound anything at all Radiohead, but because,...
Doc spotlight
By Karen Choi / May 7, 2002
If you’ve seen The Royal Tenenbaums, you’ll recall the scene when Margot Tenenbaum and Richie Tenenbaum lock eyes across the bus depot for the first time after twenty-two years of separation. It’s a classic love scene, but what really makes it one of the most magical moments in the film is its ability to make the moviegoer feel the intensity of the moment—that tender, knee-wobbling lovesick feeling. This scene works, partly because of the music involved. When they see each other a hypnotic song swells, filling the theater with sound, just as the camera zooms in on Margot’s and Richie’s...
Spiderman
By Mark J. Torma / May 7, 2002
Chicago film critic Roger Ebert tells a story from about thirty years ago, when someone asked him his opinion of a movie playing at a theater near their home in Wilmette. “I think it’s the year’s best film,” he answered. He was shocked (and later, I suspect, amused) by their response: “Oh. That doesn’t sound like anything we’d like to see.” If anyone out there shares this perverse knee-jerk reaction to critical accolades, you can rest easy—I’m here to tell you that Spider-Man is not the year’s best film. There, now you can go see the movie without being afraid...
Starlister comes to town
By M. K. Wong / April 23, 2002
I am 20 minutes late to dinner, held tonight at Loren Wilson’s and Sarah Johnsen’s 54th and Cornell apartment. I stumble up to the door, two pints of Häagen-Dazs in hand—house-greeting gifts. He scrunches up his long gangly frame, bowing repeatedly while folding his hands over mine. It’s an assuring greeting, even if he himself seems a little unsure. His eyes, however, blaze with warmth. Everything is set up when we sit down at the table. Tempeh-meatballs ‘n spaghetti, salad with cheese, and toasted triangles with eggplant dips. Loren is every bit the perfectionist cook as he is the perfectionist,...
Kill Obscurity
By The Maroon Staff / April 23, 2002
I apologize up front for the sparseness of this little article. Honestly, I just don’t know that much about the state of teatime in Chicago. Even more honestly, I have been to only two afternoon teas in Chicago. But here is a run-down of those two: one at the Drake and one at the Ritz Carleton. Both hotels serve afternoon tea daily, but the best day to go is Sunday. The Green House at the Ritz serves tea in the afternoon but they seat people only at 2:30 and 4:30. It is better to go at 2:30 if you are...
Perahia plays piano
By Christian Kraus / April 23, 2002
There are those pianists who have their own ‘approach’. There are those who have their own ‘style’. There are those who have their own ‘mannerisms’. And then there’s Murray Perahia, who, it seems, has none of the three: he is neither very idiosyncratic nor immediately recognizable, and he doesn’t seem to twist every piece according to his own whims. But Perahia does have something that is truly his own, namely a sound: the famous, gloriously poetic Perahia sound. It is a rich and glowing sound, full of shades and colors, never falling into sickly lyricism, always full-bodied and firm-grounded. A...
High Life lives low
By Garth Johnston / April 23, 2002
High Life, a play which opened at the Victory Gardens Theater on Sunday, was written by Canadian actor Lee MacDougall, who, according to the press release, is “best known for originating the role of Harry in the recent North American premiere and first national tour of Mamma Mia!” The play was directed by a woman named Dado and is one that I can, with complete honesty, not recommend to single person I knowunless you’re a glutton for crap. The Victory Gardens Theater Newsletter tells us “High Life is set in a volatile underworld, where four hardened criminals are driven by...
Neil Halstead plays the Abbey Pub
By Chris Seet / April 23, 2002
Neil Halstead The Abbey Pub April 16 Chris Seet A reviewer once hailed Neil Halstead as “one of Britain’s greatest songwriters.” While we’re quick to become desensitized to such media clichés, in Halstead’s case, there is inarguably something solid and remarkable about his songwriting. Halstead has recorded six albums with two bands, Slowdive and Mojave 3. He returns this year with his debut as a solo artist. Though obviously reaching through production methods for a sound distinct from his bands’, his songwriting remains too consistent and continuous to mask: a growing body of work that is already showing signs of...
Doc Spotlight
By The Maroon Staff / April 23, 2002
About six months after Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbor, General Jimmy Doolittle led B-25 bombers off the carrier Hornet on a secret mission to bomb the Japanese homeland. When newsmen asked President Roosevelt from where the bombers had come from, he replied, “They came from our new secret base at Shangri-La.” Later, Roosevelt used the moniker “Shangri-La” for the presidential retreat now known as Camp David. Shangri-La is the mysterious and wonderful city of Lost Horizon, the 1933 novel by James Hilton, and Frank Capra’s 1937 film adaptation. Capra’s film will play at Doc this Thursday at 7.00 pm. Frank...
Super Furry Animals
By Pete Beatty / April 23, 2002
The magestically talented Cex was afforded a mere half-hour with which to break minds, but what little time Cex was given was ample enough to intrigue at most five people in the audience, not counting the initial five who were already down with the Cex. Not to damn the man with faint praise, but Cex had to deal with crowd responses ranging from mild disapproval to outright hostility—it seemed that most of the Abbey Pub Friday night crowd did not know their $15 cover had earned them an audience with the IDM superstar du jour. And the thing about this...
Former subculture icons fail to overcome weight of success
By Kovas Boguta / April 23, 2002
Last Saturday witnessed the gathering of some of the biggest names in dance music—Paul Oakenfold, the Chemical Brothers, and Sasha and John Digweed. The event was billed as a dance-athon, with “8 continuous hours of world-class dance music.” While the show started two hours late due to the ridiculous security, the six remaining hours proved to be more than enough. True to advertising, the music was for the most part world-class, but what the flyer failed to emphasize was the impossibility of having a good time at the Allstate Arena due to the all-around lameness of the organizers and the...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / April 12, 2002
This one goes out to a young man who thinks he hasn’t seen anything good today RECORDED BUT NEVER RELEASED Are deaf people really missing that much, as far as music goes? I know that on TV they THEME: CH-CH-CHA-CHANGES Good Expansions Expos/Blue Jays/Nordiques/Senators: Milk ads in stadiums, nationalized health care. Height of average Canadian male in year 2081: Nine feet. Tampa Bay Lightning: Once, Roman Hamrlik. Usually, my grandpa. Nice unis, good colors. It’s Tampa. When Miami sinks into the ocean, you will finally understand. San Diego Padres: Conflations of colonialistic religion and baseball always result in something good....
Once and never again
By Molly Schranz / April 12, 2002
One of the great things about the TV show Once and Again is that there isn’t much to say about it. The Once and Again message forums at Television Without Pity (the source for everything TV) are full of fans, but they don’t do much but talk about the cancellation of the show, a topic that has come up at the end of each of its three seasons, and speculate about what will happen on the next episode. The great ancestor of Once and Again is not to be found in its own medium, but in the monumental works of...
What kind of total disregard for humanity do you have
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / April 12, 2002
Air, apparently, has released a video to accompany a re-edit of the opening track of 10,000 Hz Legend, “How Does It Make You Feel?” The first video from the album—for “Radio #1″—was a bit disturbing, but also weirdly comical. The video, of a robot couple preparing breakfast until the breakfast falls apart, reminds the viewer that technology has the limitation of not knowing its own limitations. The robots, for example, keep putting food in the dog bowl, even though it is rather clear that the dog (how hilarious are living pets of robots?) does not eat in pace with the...
Personal Journals Sage Francis
By Chris Seet / April 12, 2002
The press release for this album states that Sage Francis is “both superego created in the shadows of Paul Francis, and a disembowled head on a stake as a warning to all who seek to find the answers to the great abyss.” Whether the MC touted as Rhode Island’s finest or the aformentioned disembowled head, Sage Francis has been winning loyal fans the country over, thanks in no small part to his presence on both Anticon and Atmosphere tours. His latest release, Personal Journals, is an ambitious production, perhaps a little too much so. While containing moments of deft MCing,...
The Faint are anything but
By Jon Garrett / April 12, 2002
It was a night of surprises, of embarrassing schlock and unexpected glee. But more on that later. The evening’s openers, Interpol, proved just right, justifying their rapidly growing fanbase with a show of cool professionalism. Their set began promptly at 7 p.m., and I am pleased to report that they played to more people than many headliners often see at the Metro. Apparently, word has traveled fast about these latest NYC upstarts. Armed with their pensive brand of ’80s-flecked indie rock and clad in muted jackets and ties, they easily won over the assembled throng. Particularly noteworthy were their renditions...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / April 12, 2002
This one goes out to a young man who thinks he hasn’t seen anything good today RECORDED BUT NEVER RELEASED Are deaf people really missing that much, as far as music goes? I know that on TV they THEME: CH-CH-CHA-CHANGES Good Expansions Expos/Blue Jays/Nordiques/Senators: Milk ads in stadiums, nationalized health care. Height of average Canadian male in year 2081: Nine feet. Tampa Bay Lightning: Once, Roman Hamrlik. Usually, my grandpa. Nice unis, good colors. It’s Tampa. When Miami sinks into the ocean, you will finally understand. San Diego Padres: Conflations of colonialistic religion and baseball always result in something good....
Once and never again
By Molly Schranz / April 12, 2002
One of the great things about the TV show Once and Again is that there isn’t much to say about it. The Once and Again message forums at Television Without Pity (the source for everything TV) are full of fans, but they don’t do much but talk about the cancellation of the show, a topic that has come up at the end of each of its three seasons, and speculate about what will happen on the next episode. The great ancestor of Once and Again is not to be found in its own medium, but in the monumental works of...
Odd Bedfellows at the CSO
By Jonathan Cape / April 9, 2002
Rossini, “Overture to William Tell” Lutoslawski, Cello Concerto Rimsky-Korsakov, Sheherazade (Op. 35) William Eddins, conductor Lynn Harrell, cello Chicago Symphony Orchestra Thursday, March 28 2002 Rossini, Lutoslawski, Rimsky-Korsakov. I found myself approaching this concert with one main question: What could possibly be the logic of this program? Why on earth do these pieces go together? Perhaps an answer to this can found by considering the lightest piece on the program: Rossini’s “Overture to William Tell.” That a concert could be structured around its overture is a peculiar notion. It seems to contradict the very nature of the word—after all, isn’t...
Janeane Janeane, the Gripe Machine
By Nasia Anam / April 9, 2002
We wait quietly, perhaps even nervously, in an intimidatingly stylish room at the Peninsula Hotel downtown. There are four of us, me and three other scruffy-looking college reporters holding our breath to see if we are alt enough to satisfy that champion of counterculture herself, Ms. Janeane Garofalo. She is half an hour late, as all hipsters tend to be. Suddenly, there is a commotion as the dark starlet bursts in and booms, “Is this the COLLEGE group? This looks like the COLLEGE group.” I smile anxiously and immediately begin to feel self-conscious in my thrift-store skirt and red tights....
Doc Spotlight
By Nicholas Betson / April 9, 2002
Garth Bond Last week was a great one if you’re a fan of the Coen Brothers, with Raising Arizona on Wednesday and The Man Who Wasn’t There on Friday. But this Wednesday is a perfect time to see the other half of the Preston Sturges/Coen Brothers series with Sullivan’s Travels. As serious Coen Brothers fans probably know, Sullivan’s Travels provided the title for their 2000 release, O Brother Where Art Thou? In fact, it was this connection which first suggested the series. But the Coen Brothers drew a lot more than a title from Preston Sturges, and Sullivan’s Travels is...
A Garden of Glass
By The Maroon Staff / April 9, 2002
Many of the most memorable aesthetic experiences are followed by the thought, “Dude! This would be cool on [insert psychotropic substance of choice]!” I felt that way when watching The Matrix. I felt that way once while sitting in Rockefeller Chapel alone. I’m not sure whether the capacity to inspire the use of psychedelics indicates good art, but it at least indicates fun art, in my opinion. Chihuly in the Park: A Garden of Glass would be cool on psychedelics. It was sort of an Alice In Wonderland/weird alien planet sort of aesthetic. This was due to the location of...
Review: “The War Against Cliché,” by Martin Amis
By John Lovejoy / April 9, 2002
Arrogance sparks resentment. And after ten acclaimed novels, Martin Amis has reason to be proud, but in The War Against Cliché he seems to outdo even his own standards of showmanship and uncharitable judgment. From the overly confident title, to the individual essays in which, one after another, a sort of competitive fervor dominate, The War Against Cliché announces its own importance with dash and seems to challenge the reader to find just one cliché in its pages. Though there are a few clichés in the book (page 421: “[Naipaul] has bigger fish to fry”) Amis for the most part...
Doc Films Spotlight
By Online Editor / April 2, 2002
Doc has been having nightmares recently. The feverish doom-foretelling kind, reminiscent of Dr. Frankenstein. There have been war scenes witnessed from the window of a friend’s apartment, roomates-turned-mad scientists, along with the typical vague sensation of falling. Maybe Doc really does just have a fever. Maybe Doc has been staying up too late fretting about petty problems. However, when sweat beads on the brow and sheets are twisted in fearful frenzy, a few fantastic battles between good and evil might be just what the doctor ordered. Fortuitous it is, then, that this week has two such battles in store, starting...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / April 2, 2002
BASEBALL Look, no matter how badly you want to invent sexual tension between Tatum O’Neal and Walter Matthau in The Bad News Bears, it’s not there. It’s not there. Let it go, Indiana. UNREQUITED LOVE The best kind in my opinion. Porque e-e-everything you want never lives up to your prerationalized expectations of what it should be. Except for money and precious gems. And possibly sex. But love is a battlefield. And on every battlefield there are deserters. And dying horses. And probably dead horses. And other horses mourning the dead and dying horses. And priest horses administering the last...
Shining Rivers In a Can: East River Pipe
By Chris Seet / April 2, 2002
Some people are built for fame. Most, however, are not. You get the impression that F.M. Cornog, longtime resident of Queens and, before that, allegedly, a station bench in Hoboken, could become famous overnight, and still be sipping the filthy waters of the river that underlies his music. East River Pipe is Cornog’s project. It’s music that, while cool and spacious, inevitably rides the rough current of Cornog’s own biography. A self-taught musician from New Jersey, Cornog grappled with despair, alcohol, mental illness, a dead-end job at a light-bulb factory, and, apparently, destitution, before sobering up to record music—as he...
The New Critic, Redux
By Andrew Brokos / April 2, 2002
Laid up in a charming sanatorium in the mountains of Davos with a feisty case of tuberculosis, the New Critic himself could not finish polishing this week’s column, which he has thus left in the always capable hands of his vast workshop, though all work here presented has passed under his watchful eyes and bears his unreserved stamp of approval. I. I’m just average, common too I’m just like him, the same as you I’m everybody’s brother and son I ain’t different from anyone It ain’t no use a-talking to me It’s just the same as talking to you. Ne’er...
Proof
By Jennifer Bussell / April 2, 2002
We can learn one of two things from David Auburn’s Proof: one, U of C humor is not as highbrow as we think it is; or two, Proof doesn’t contain that much math humor. I prefer to think that Auburn, an alumnus and former VOICES writer, managed to lend University of Chicago specifics to a snappy story that centers on the theme of one’s potential for greatness. 25-year-old Catherine (Chelsea Altman) has spent the past several years caring for her father, Robert (Robert Foxworth), a University of Chicago mathematician who, after brief and brilliant career, succumbs to mental illness. The...
Doc Films Spotlight
By Online Editor / April 2, 2002
Doc has been having nightmares recently. The feverish doom-foretelling kind, reminiscent of Dr. Frankenstein. There have been war scenes witnessed from the window of a friend’s apartment, roomates-turned-mad scientists, along with the typical vague sensation of falling. Maybe Doc really does just have a fever. Maybe Doc has been staying up too late fretting about petty problems. However, when sweat beads on the brow and sheets are twisted in fearful frenzy, a few fantastic battles between good and evil might be just what the doctor ordered. Fortuitous it is, then, that this week has two such battles in store, starting...
Artist Interview: “You’re in and you’re out”
By Jon Garrett / March 1, 2002
Clinic is nothing if not unconventional. They specialize in three-minute pop songs, but what other so-called pop songwriters would look to the grimy textures of the Velvet Underground and obscure jazz artists for inspiration? And their path to success has been almost as unlikely as their approach to music making. After a few poorly received EPs, Clinic was invited to accompany Radiohead on their European tour in 2000. Since then, they’ve managed to capitalize on the goodwill, releasing the much-lauded Internal Wrangler album and following that up with a successful tour of America. Now, after a short respite, they’re set...
Movie Review: 40 days and all the sexual repression you can handle
By Mark Torma / March 1, 2002
40 Days and 40 Nights Directed by Michael Lehmann 94 min., Rated R On the press pass for the screening of this film, it said that 40 Days and 40 Nights was “America’s first no sex comedy.” If that’s the case, then what was Josh Hartnett doing with some lissome brunette not 10 minutes into the movie, playing pinochle? If I may indulge my crankiness a bit further, there have been many American comedies that held great sway over audiences because of their ability to be excruciatingly oblique about sex. Preston Sturges’ The Lady Eve comes to mind, as well...
What Kind of Total Disregard For Humanity Do You Have?
By The Maroon Staff / March 1, 2002
• Warum ich so weise bin • • Warum ich so klug bin • • Warum ich so gute Bücher schreibe • • Warum ich ein Schicksal bin • First day in Sydney, sightseeing, my friends drag me to the Opera House. Actually, we were doing the whole coast from the gardens to the Opera House down to Darling Harbour where we could see the eight-year-olds washing away early summer heatstroke in a fountain. Not that we were looking. But it was happening. I was eating ice cream at the time. Damn, Sydney was hot. Anyway, there is a restaurant...
I had sympathy for Chuck Jones
By Whet Moser / March 1, 2002
Chuck Jones A think piece A couple of years ago, when I attended an institution where I could take a class called “Postmodernism,” my teacher asked how I felt so at home in the green fields of metanarratives, pastiche, parody, and self-referentiality. For a glorious semester I thought it was an innate ability to see over the broad shoulders of modernism and into the 11 dimensions or however many scientists are telling us there are these days. Then I realized that I had just watched too many Chuck Jones cartoons. Jones, the reigning genius of Warner Brothers animation from 1940-1960,...
Good Friday music
By Zachariah Kahn / March 1, 2002
Haydn, “The Seven Last Words of Christ” Brentano String Quartet Mandel Hall, February 22 Imagine: University of Chicago presents a Good Friday service. It is long and intense; there is no intermission. Mandel Hall replaces the Spanish cathedral; the poet usurps the priest. Last Friday, the Brentano String Quartet performed Haydn’s “The Seven Last Words of Christ,” with Mark Strand reading his poetry for the work. Haydn wrote “The Seven Last Words” on commission from a Spanish cathedral for a Good Friday service. It has nine movements, one for each of the seven phrases Christ uttered from the cross, an...
Album Review: Boards go beep
By Gabriel McElwain / March 1, 2002
Geogaddi Boards of Canada Warped What is the purpose of music? This isn’t rhetorical. Seriously, what is the point of music? I spent a lot of time not doing homework and thinking about the answer to this question. I divided it into several other questions first, though. What do I enjoy about this music (why am I listening to it)? What is the intent of the musician(s)? Wait, where did that synth line come from? OK, never mind. Now what was I talking about? I can’t remember Oh, yeah. The point. What is the point — no, what is the...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By The Maroon Staff / February 22, 2002
Friday, February 22 There seems to be a little bit of everything on campus tonight, so take your pick. First, things that cost money. The Muslim Students Association is having their 12th annual Eid dinner and lecture. This one is called “Islam and the West: Confrontation or Accommodation?” and the lecturer is John Esposito, editor of The Oxford History of Islam. Doors open at 8 p.m. and tickets cost $8. For half that price, you can go check out Fat Girl at Doc. If the title piques your interest the movie is about two sisters “plunged into a summer of...
Ingo Metzmacher brings exciting 20th-century music
By Christian Kraus / February 22, 2002
Ives, “Central Park in the Dark” Beethoven, Symphony No. 2 Haydn, “Sinfonia Concertante” Hartmann, Symphony No. 6 Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Ingo Metzmacher, conductor Symphony Hall, February 14 I don’t know if you’ve been to Central Park in New York. Even if so, you probably haven’t been there at night. Seems to be ill-advised to hang out there when it gets dark, and shady creatures begin to look out for those who want to get mugged. Or so the common myth has it. In any case, you’ve certainly haven’t been to Central Park back in 1870. If you feel as if...
Album Review: Shoegazing: This well ain’t poisoned yet
By Simon Shifrin / February 22, 2002
Sometimes, maybe after having heard Death Cab for Cutie be hailed as the hip underground band all the kids are digging these days, I honestly think I’d sell my soul, or at least a good majority of my earthly possessions, to have been in college 10 to 15 years ago, back in the halcyon days of Creation Records and the shoegaze movement. Ah, yes, shoegaze — that principally Anglophilic window of time where bands were scraggly and unphotogenic and spent most of their time staring at their Vox pedals (or shoes, as the case may be). Days when college radio...
Kill Obscurity
By The Maroon Staff / February 22, 2002
I want to tell you about things to do in Chicago. I want you to get out of Hyde Park more, meet random people, and be useful. I guess the theme here will be community. Build it, find it, support it where it exists. Chicago is called a city of neighborhoods, often because the atmosphere, racial and cultural makeup, and resource level can palpably shift when you cross some street and land in the next box in the grid. The city catalogs 77 “community areas” and it is the rule, not the exception, that two adjoining “areas” have drastically different...
Shortcuts: Quick Reviews of 4 Albums
By The Maroon Staff / February 22, 2002
And All That Could Have Been Nine Inch Nails Nothing It’s been a quick, nasty tumble for Trent Reznor. He’s gone from the King to the Prince to the Peasant of Darkness in about seven years’ time. He was Spin’s Artist of Year in 1996 and graced the magazine cover; now, he’d be lucky to get his name in bold print in the News and Notes section. If you dare ask Trent why he’s suffered such a merciless commercial slide, he’ll tell you about how Britney and other vapid pop maestros shanghaied the Billboard charts. I know because I actually...
Movie Review: The Dragonfly’s a moth
By Mark Torma / February 22, 2002
Dragonfly Directed by Tom Shadyac 104m. rated PG-13 I went to see Dragonfly. I wound up seeing The Mothman Prophecies. Again. Oh, the title may have referred to a carnivorous rather than an herbivorous insect, and it may have had Kevin Costner instead of Richard Gere, but there’s no mistake — the movie I saw was The Mothman Prophecies. Well, at least the first quarter of Mothman Prophecies, anyway. Past that point, Mothman at least moved out of the hospital, away from its obsession with supernaturally inspired drawings of the title entities, and into an entirely new, suspense-filled part of...
Bollywood’s Lagaan and the Oscars
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / February 22, 2002
• Warum ich so weise bin • • Warum ich so klug bin • • Warum ich so gute Bücher schreibe • • Warum ich ein Schicksal bin • My esteemed colleagues elsewhere in this august journal have already made passing comments about this year’s Oscar showdown for best foreign language film. They seem to share the same mind as I, that is, that Lagaan is, if not the best movie ever made, at least most ready to mine for Oscar gold. In this case, however, there stands a formidable opponent, namely Amélie. In the course of this essay qua...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / February 19, 2002
Real quick before we get started Lagaan deserves to win the best foreign film Oscar over Amelie. I haven’t seen Amelie, but unless it is four hours long and about cricket, it is probably not as good as Lagaan. A long story about nothing in particular I worked in a pet store once. One time a guy came in and asked me a question. He didn’t want a dog or a cat, which meant he was going to leave empty handed, because it was a really small pet store. We had two puppies and three kittens. We didn’t have any...
John Q goes public about health care crisis in US
By Gautam Chopra / February 19, 2002
John Q Directed by Nick Cassavetes 114 minutes, rated PG-13 Screenwriters seem to find that when their hero is faced with danger, it’s best to surround him with as many stereotypes as possible for protection. Think about the rainbow coalition of bus passengers in Speed, or the every-single-kind-of-white-guy-we-could-find troops in Saving Private Ryan. It seems that the writers of John Q had the same fears for the safety of Denzel Washington. When John Q. Archibald (Denzel Washington) takes a Chicago emergency room hostage in order to procure a heart transplant for his dying son, he gets saddled with a similarly...
Britney speared by critic
By Elisabeth Kilpatrick / February 19, 2002
Crossroads Directed by Tamra Davis 96 min., Rated PG-13 She sings! She dances! She’s Britney Spears, everybody’s favorite trashy-innocent teen icon. And following in the vein of many celebrities these days, she decided that being rich and famous gives her the right to genre-jump, so now she acts too! Kind of. Her new movie, Crossroads, is a thinly veiled attempt by the star to become even more of a household name, if that’s possible. It’s the story of three childhood friends who reunite, put their differences aside, and drive cross-country; the kind of sentimental premise that should make teenage girls...
What Kind of Total Disregard For Humanity Do You Have?
By The Maroon Staff / February 12, 2002
• Warum ich so weise bin • • Warum ich so klug bin • • Warum ich so gute Bücher schreibe • • Warum ich ein Schicksal bin • Special Valentine’s Day Edition Capitol Records released Rubber Soul in the U.S. without a single. Simply put, by rock standards, this was a distinct departure from the accepted role of the LP. While in the jazz world the long-play format was being worked to its full artistic potential by 1965 (A Love Supreme is a sublime contemporary example), rock still treated the album as a showcase for recent singles and tons...
Valentine’s To-Do List
By The Maroon Staff / February 12, 2002
1. Make her a nice chicken breast. 2. Film Denny's commercial with Tony Gwynn. 3. Throw it in the butt. 4. Quit smoking 5. Call doctor about rash. 6. Get into techno 7. Write for Voices Thursdays, Seven Pee Em. Ask for Wade.
Shortcuts: Quick Reviews of 3 Albums
By The Maroon Staff / February 12, 2002
Sleeping on Roads Neil Halstead 4AD The debut solo effort from the lead singer of Mojave 3. Mean anything to you? Well, nobody blames you. Mojave 3 has carved for itself a quiet pothole in the scorched road on which Nick Drake spent his golden years. While remaining low-key, credit must be given where it’s due: though they owe more than a bit, stylistically and thematically, to Mr. Drake, Mojave 3 has a good ear for a tune. Sleeping on Roads reflects this too. All the trappings of the Mojave 3 sound — lush, gentle acoustic guitars and Halstead’s well-tuned...
Kill Obscurity
By The Maroon Staff / February 12, 2002
Valentine’s Day Blows February 14 is about to rear its ugly head once again and, oh, what’s that you say? You have a date? Happy bastard. Maybe you’re in less need of this article then. Because as my friend Josh often says, “The best kind of love is the love you give yourself.” Truer words have not been spoken. Therefore I dedicated my afternoon to search out the best in self-luvin’. If you’re going to be flying solo this V-day this is especially helpful, and even if you are a rare happy bastard you might find something here that’s useful...
Radu Lupu: polishing the music till it shines
By Dorothea Hunter / February 12, 2002
Radu Lupu Symphony Center January 27 Spending an extended period of time in the presence of an indubitably wise person makes me giddy. Sitting in the lower right balcony of Symphony Center, I looked up each time to see a Tolstoy of the keys, telling me stories in the richest and most personal language. Naturally, I became like a schoolboy. Furthermore, I came to be possessed of the feeling that there was not one but a group of men sharing the stage with Radu Lupu: Ludwig Von Beethoven, Franz Schubert, and George Enescu. And from the first note, there began,...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / February 12, 2002
Dear Diary, I’m not in much of a mood for the usual nonsense. I wanna be your dog I saw a car this weekend that said I can make up to $450 a month by allowing companies to advertise on my vehicle. The car didn’t talk, it had an ad painted on it. Unfortunately I don’t have a vehicle but I was wondering if anybody wants to take out an advertisement in this column or on my physical person. Like I could wear a T-shirt or write your Web site on my forehead in magic marker. Actually maybe I just...
Mr. Todd’s wild ride
By Andrew Gaylord / February 12, 2002
Storytelling Directed by Todd Solondz 87 min., Rated R New Line Productions In 1996, Todd Solondz made a splash with the release of Welcome to the Dollhouse, a consciously miserable two hours about a nerdy adolescent girl tormented by her unloving family and schoolmates. Lauded by many critics as a keen new director with fresh insights and an offbeat voice, Solondz was inaugurated into directorial stardom, with great expectations for the future. Skepticism, however, has a way of sidling past high walls of glorified appraisals; and I, not in the least, upheld my reservations. Concerning these doubts shared by a...
Unreconciled Tension
By Lauren Freeman / February 8, 2002
The Art of Mu Xin: Landscape Paintings and Prison Notes Smart Museum January 24 to March 31, 2002 You would think The Art of Mu Xin: Landscape Paintings and Prison Notes has all the ingredients for an arresting show: the backdrop of China’s Cultural Revolution (1966-76); an artist who doubles as an intellectual/writer/dreamer and risks his life while under house arrest to create landscape paintings; his inner musings – secret, erudite texts written on purloined paper while he was imprisoned. Unfortunately, the idea of the show, with its historical context and the drama behind the creation of the Prison Text,...
The sound of silence: CSO plays Beethoven, inaudibly
By Christian Kraus / February 8, 2002
Stravinsky, “Jeu de cartes”; Beethoven, Piano Concerto No. 3; Brahms, Symphony No. 2 Gianluca Cascioli, piano; Daniele Gatti, conductor; Chicago Symphony Orchestra Symphony Hall January 31, 2002 There is a new fashion among intellectual pianists. I call it the “pianissimo fetishism.” It works as follows: the intellectual pianist wants to distinguish himself from crowd-pleasing virtuosos and prove to his audience, nay, to eternity, that he is the true source of musicality, he alone the true evoker of the great geniuses of the past. In his lonesome struggle, he feels very much like a romantic. He therefore reads the romantics. He...
In The Bedroom: Hire Judith, she archetypes
By Mark Torma / February 8, 2002
In the Bedroom Directed by Todd Field 130 min. Rated R, Miramax There aren’t many movies that are commendable for their use of archetypes. Even in this day and age of cookie-cutter dramas and even more mindless teen comedies (and did I mention action films?), it’s all the rage to point out a movie’s merits on the basis of its genre-bending writing, characterization, or even casting. Much like Homey da Clown, however, In the Bedroom doesn’t play that game. It throws archetypes at you in every frame. Well, actually, it doesn’t throw them at you, nor does it hit you...
Baroque and sassy
By Christian Kraus / February 1, 2002
Works by Corelli, Fontana, Uccellini, Rossi, Pandolfi, and Bonporti Andrew Manze, baroque violin; Richard Egarr, harpsichord Mandel Hall January 25, 2002 I will never understand why people don’t get up and start dancing when they hear baroque music. Baroque music rocks. It has crisp rhythm, and it is in constant, nay, infinite movement, kicking its sequences further and further until, at some point, the composer decides that it’s enough. It has more energy and rhythm than drum-and-bass, and it has more drive and force than black metal. Should I ever become rich, I will rent some antique-ish theater and have...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By The Maroon Staff / February 1, 2002
• Warum ich so weise bin • • Warum ich so klug bin • • Warum ich so gute Bücher schreibe • • Warum ich ein Schicksal bin • Secluded away in the middle of Michigan, we (my friends and I) were not supposed to know that on August 2, 1990, Saddam Hussein marched into Kuwait, in response (in part) to assurances made by U.S. diplomats over the summer, or so we (all) would later learn. There was no conspiracy to keep us in the dark, of course; it was just understood that the outside world became insignificant compared to...
I’m not a playa… But R. Kelly is
By Will Connors / February 1, 2002
I have been extremely unfulfilled lately. Is it because I haven’t had a girlfriend (sane or otherwise) in six months and no girls seem willing to remedy that situation? Probably. Is it due to the fact that there seems to be more than one heinous pimple growing on my ass? More than likely. Is it because I catch myself doing the Billy Elliot dance in front of the mirror several times a day, and not always in the privacy of my own room? I’m afraid so. I think that above all these reasons, however, is the insatiable desire for all...
Voices STD (Stuff to Do)
By The Maroon Staff / February 1, 2002
Friday, February 1 New month, a few new things to do around and about. At 6 p.m. you can check out the highly regarded (I haven’t seen it, but I’ve only heard interesting things) Farewell My Concubine in the Coulter Lounge in the International House. There will be another movie following it; unfortunately I can’t read Chinese, and the poster only lists this second movie’s title in Chinese, so that’s that. Off at Doc is the classic Rear Window, a movie that scared the crap out of me when I was little. It’s worth seeing if you haven’t seen it...
Kill Obscurity
By The Maroon Staff / February 1, 2002
OK, I’m a big fan of noodles. I love it when I place a steaming, dripping-with-hot-broth batch of noodles in my mouth, to the point of scalding myself. But the best part is the tension that exists when the teeth cuts into the noodle, the integral part that is the elusive quality of the noodle. Termed “koshi” in Japanese, “song” in Cantonese, and more recognizably, “al dente” in Italian, it is the fine line between soft and hard, yin and yang — good noodle and total crap. Big Bowl 60 East Ohio Street (312) 951-1888 Hmm, a restaurant that hits...
And you will know rock
By Jon Garrett / February 1, 2002
Source Tags & Codes …And You Will Know Us By the Trail of the Dead interscope Selling out is my fairytale ending. Young unfocused yet talented band hones its skills on the indie circuit, releasing a few unfulfilling-yet-promising albums before finally signing with a major label. With the much-needed influx of cash, said band invests in a real studio and gets the professional sound that might have been wasted on them several years before. But I understand that not everyone shares my opinion on this subject. Those of the indie persuasion are quick to point out the negatives of the...
Sad bastard music
By Chris Seet / January 29, 2002
It’s a difficult proposition, elucidating the nature of music’s darker half. As it stands, one is ostensibly faced with a spate of new nu-metal bands that rise orc-like from the same tepid pool to be smeared across popular radio for a week, or a swarm of ironic indie pop groups with thrift-store trousers and sentence-long song titles. What happens, though, to those kids that, well, just don’t feel either way inclined? For years now, a steady output of slow, acoustic, gold-plated songwriting has offered a laudable alter ego for independent music. Like the countercurrent it is, the diffuse realm of...
Shortcuts
By The Maroon Staff / January 29, 2002
Gift Curve Capitol Curve achieved modest acclaim in the early ’90s with two secondhand shoegaze albums entitled Doppelganger and Cuckoo. That was supposed to be the end of the story. But the duo of Dean Garcia (guitars) and Toni Halliday (vocals) doesn’t seem to know when to quit, as their latest and most inconsequential album hit shelves this past summer. Where does this album fit into the musical landscape of the new century, you might ask? Well, to be perfectly honest, nowhere, which is perhaps why it was released with nary a peep from Universal Records. Curve takes a stab...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / January 29, 2002
Dear Diary, Honey, Just Allow Me One More Chance Someone (me) said something about the National Football League to someone else (people) on their (mine) porch some time ago. I said the AFL-NFL championship game, which some (all) have been referring to by the unfortunate term of “Super Bowl” would be contested between the Boston Patriots and Los Angeles neé Cleveland Ram-Men. And my prophecies were fulfilled. Anyway, at least four people can attest to this. And one person can tell you that I said that the Patriots would be in the AFC championship game in OCTOBER. But since I...
The menace to Victorian London, prostitutes
By Elizabeth Everton / November 9, 2001
Few people are as notorious as Jack the Ripper, and I couldn’t tell you why. For all intents and purposes, Jack the Ripper was a little like anthrax: he killed a few people in a certain profession, yet still induced panic-induced nausea in large numbers of people in his general area, who undoubtedly demanded up-to-the-minute coverage on whatever the Victorian version of CNN was. Flippant analogies aside, the fact remains that Jack has probably received more attention than any other serial killer, despite the facts that, (a) he only killed five people, and (b) he has been dead for most...
Nothing smooth about these song-stealing criminals
By Megan Wade / November 9, 2001
I think, before truly beginning, it would be best for me to expound on the meaning of the name Alien Ant Farm. First off, “alien.” As in, “the concept of music is completely alien to all our opening acts.” Next, there is “ant.” These would be the tiny creatures also known as ten-year-olds that seem to be swarming during any given Alien Ant Farm performance. Lastly, “farm”: any venue holding a concert in which farmers (aka, Alien Ant Farm band members) raise and breed a generation of the aforementioned antlike children to listen to horrible music. It’s not as though...
Black Rebel Motorcycle Club strip down
By Jon Garrett / November 9, 2001
So how do you know that you witnessed a great show, one of those truly rare performances that restores your faith in the power of screaming guitars? I’m not quite sure how you measure it, but I do know that it’s 2:30 in the morning and I’m absolutely wired. No chance in hell I’m going to bed. The only thing I can think to do is to try to transfer all this energy onto the page. It feels like I just had the equivalent of three cups of coffee and a quadruple shot of espresso. By the end of most...
Let’s kill rock ‘n’ roll
By Yoshi Salaverry / November 9, 2001
Save rock before Les Savy Fav kills it! At least that’s what Tim Harrington, lead singer of the acclaimed post-punk outfit, threatened to do when I spoke with him last Friday. As with The Strokes and Radiohead, Les Savy Fav has been given the distinction of “the band who will save rock and roll” . . . only they’re not having any of it. Speaking to Tim, the manic vocalist behind Les Savy Fav’s reputation for incendiary concerts, was a daunting task to say the least. Luckily I found him to be outwardly “normal,” at least when it came to...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / November 9, 2001
Two characterizations of Stereolab which really create issues for ‘Lab founder Tim Gane are “retro” and “Marxist.” “I don’t understand why we’re called Marxists,” he explained to me after their MAB show before a packed crowd in Mandel Hall last Friday. Sure there have been left-wing-of-critical lyrics in the past, Gane added, but he himself is not political, nor does he vote, nor does he even think anyone in the band is a “factual” Marxist — not to mention has even ever read Marx. Yet, at the same time, resting on the dressing room table in the bowels of Mandel...
Stereolab raises the bar
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / November 6, 2001
Before a packed Mandel Hall Friday night, Stereolab blended a diachronic setlist for screaming and dancing fans in MAB’s first concert of the school year. Stereolab, an English/French sextet with deep roots in Chicago, was playing for the second time in a week, having played on Halloween night at the Vic, and the home-field advantage was not always completely obvious, especially when at moments it seemed as though the reaction to opening guests Quasi was more inviting. Quasi, who began a stretch of shows with Stereolab starting this weekend, seemed to get a lot of warmth from the crowd. Made...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / November 6, 2001
Dear Diary (1) Well, it’s Monday night. I’m not going to lie to you again. Nothing has changed in the last seven days. And if anything had changed, this would not be the place to read about it. I have a paper to write. So I figure there are three things I could be doing right now. I can never make up my mind about stuff like this. So I figure it will be more fun if you play along with me in this choose-your-own-adventure-styley thing. Please do. It took me the better part of a half-hour to write this....
Doc Spotlight
By The Maroon Staff / November 6, 2001
Though the Doc Spotlight normally focuses on specific films of interest playing at Doc, or perhaps on a nice long text about one Doc series, this Spotlight and another one a bit later in the quarter are going to be different. Not because this week’s films are sub-par — not at all. The Doc Spotlight is particularly interested in Fellini’s City of Women showing tonight, the Tombstone shoot-out of Law and Order on Thursday at 7.00 p.m., and John Sayles’ The Secret of Roan Inish Thursday at 9.00 p.m. Right, so the Doc Spotlight would normally talk about them. And...
A Spirited Halloween
By Sarah Sung / November 6, 2001
The history of Spiritualized has always been tumultuous. The band formed from the remnants of Spacemen 3 and the unsteady relationship between Jason Pierce (a.k.a. J. Spaceman) and Pete “Sonic Boom” Kember. Pierce continued in the Spacemen 3 tradition, adding sweeping orchestral sounds that have since become a trademark of Spiritualized. Meanwhile, Sonic Boom took a more experimental route, touring a couple of years ago with the Flaming Lips and playing a set consisting entirely of the staticky noises made from wired-together Speak and Spells. Rumor has it that Sonic Boom is touring again, under the name Spacemen 3. Spiritualized,...
The Jick is up
By Whet Moser / November 6, 2001
One of my friends who listened to me listening to one too many Pavement CDs started referring to me as “emo boy.” I took great pains to point out that Pavement isn’t emo, but the difference really started to seem academic. Basically his point was that I’d probably be a lot happier and get more dates if I didn’t always put “Summer Babe” on repeat. Maybe Stephen Malkmus decided the same thing too. After leaving Pavement behind, he’s got a really cute girlfriend who’s sometimes part of his new band (and who fulfills the same role that Linda McCartney did...
The Plan loses its way
By Jon Garrett / October 26, 2001
Not everyone can be a good football player. I know because I nearly killed myself trying. I was right on track to graduate from flag to tackle games when a very angry and very large 10-year-old deposited the entire weight of his frame directly on my head — and that was after he had clotheslined me. Following that experience, my parents tried to convince me that maybe football was better left to the kids that didn’t have knobby knees and toothpick-sized necks. Unfortunately, it still took a broken arm and several stitches before I heeded their advice and picked up...
Snoop shows sensitive underbelly, new hat and cane
By Elisabeth Kilpatrick / October 26, 2001
Snoop Dogg’s tour, the Puff Puff Pass Tour, finished up its raucous excursion across the United States and Canada on Saturday night with a show at Chicago’s Aragon Ballroom. The show featured Kurupt, DJ Badass, and Snoop alongside Tha Eastsidaz and Das, and was elaborately fitted with video screens, fog, and plenty of energy. Snoop Dogg, however, the once and future king of West Coast rappers and an enormous musical talent, had a commanding stage presence and tight musical style that made the rest of the night’s talent pale by comparison. As a result, the rest of the show sometimes...
Bland, mindless nu-metal music: many bands still love it
By Chris Heaney / October 26, 2001
So it’s Thursday night, and I’m in the basement of Ida for the meeting at the Maroon Headquarters. They need an article and the benevolent dictators of the Voices section proffer up a pair of CDs for review — Puddle of Mudd’s Come Clean and the new one from Adema. These two bands are both inbred sons of the rap-metal brigade (Adema’s lead singer is the half-brother of Korn’s Jonathan Davis, and Puddle Of Mudd is the first album to come out on Fred Durst’s new Flawless label), and if there is one thing that stands out about these two...
Thirty tracks of acid
By Elliott Brennan / October 23, 2001
Richard D. James is the popular and acclaimed mad genius of electronic music. He drives a tank, turns down production and remix jobs for Madonna, lives in a bank vault, spins sandpaper discs at parties (to critical acclaim, no less); regardless of the media exposure, the music of the Aphex Twin remains interesting. Warp Record’s classic Artificial Intelligence compilation of “electronic listening music” gave the world Aphex Twin, along with Autechre, the Black Dog, and the Orb: artists making techno that was equally suited to dancing and listening. Later, Boards of Canada, µ-Ziq, and Jega helped make the genre big...
Irish punks avoid disappointing
By Megan Wade / October 23, 2001
I think I saw the good and the bad meet last Friday night. They shook hands and decided to hold a punk concert. Where it seemed to me a constant clash of things should have taken place, somehow a general fusion of two worlds occurred. Imagine this: barebacked muscular skinheads in their aggressive display of moshing sing “Amazing Grace” together, accompanied by bagpipe. Right next to them: police. Not on duty, but there for the ride, jumping around with as much force as anyone else. Just where else would this happen besides a Dropkick Murphys concert? Surprisingly decent opening acts...
Nas may not like him, but Jay-Z is still our man
By Elisabeth Kilpatrick / October 16, 2001
The story goes that in the early 1990s, an as-yet unknown black boy from the New York City projects recorded a single with Foxy Brown, took the tape to the musical director of Hot 97, the premiere rap radio station of New York, and dumped $10,000 worth of hustling money on the director’s desk, saying, “Play this song.” Well, that single blew up all over the radio, the boy got signed to a record label, and then went on to form his own Roc-a-fella Records and become one of the preeminent icons of the hip-hop world. It’s hard to say...
They have quite the nerve
By Pete Beatty / October 16, 2001
For someone who owns a lot of records and is supposed to really like music, I really hate music. As of the last couple weeks anyway. I missed a concert I really wanted to go see. I don’t really have anyone to blame for that except myself, seeing as I was asleep on the bathroom floor when my ride showed up. Anyway, the weird thing is that I wound up not regretting it all that much. That’s the weird thing. By the way, I am incredibly superficial. So when I did my fortnightly reckoning of how fucking sweet I am,...
Dear Diary,
By Pete Beatty / October 16, 2001
Last Tuesday, I asked for a half-page and quickly realized that I didn’t have anything to say. This Tuesday I again am realizing that I have not so much to say. In fact, I have even less to say today than I did last time. I didn’t have much at all to say last time. And I have even less to say now. This is a really good way of drawing people into the article. Once I reveal I have absolutely nothing worthwhile to say, there’s no way I could possibly disappoint anyone. Better yet, I discourage anyone from even...
Stiller cons celebrity friends to appear in half-baked skit
By Amanda Biela / October 16, 2001
“I’m sorry, honey.” These are words that I usually don’t whisper to my significant other in the midst of a film. Yet as I watched Ben Stiller purse his lips and strut around as Zoolander, male model superstar, and Will Ferrell squeeze himself into another nauseating leather corset getup, I knew it was necessary to apologize for dragging anyone to see this film disaster. Zoolander is the latest Ben Stiller project. After starring in several well-received comedies such as There’s Something About Mary and Meet the Parents and directing moderately successful films such as The Cable Guy and Reality Bites,...
Tokyo Quartet struggles with nuances of Brahms
By Christian Kraus / October 16, 2001
What is it that makes music connoisseurs admire Brahms so much? Why do we find his music so beautiful? How can we try to understand his music? There is good reason to pose these questions, for unlike the music of other classical composers, that of Brahms is not only often difficult to access, but its origin and genesis remain enigmatic. In Mozart, for example, we hear the playful childishness that we have come to know from his letters as they meet a tone of grief and distress. In Schubert, we hear the outcries of a disturbed human being, bursts of...
Adams moves to LA, promptly sells out
By Jon Garrett / October 12, 2001
Funny things happen when music artists evolve. In most other contexts, evolution implies a forward progress, a form of adaptation that improves the object or organism. But in the realm of popular music, evolution is a dangerous word. A word that has the power to alienate an artist’s fan base and even cause it to drastically shrink. No wonder PR companies and artists themselves are loathe to use the word. Why would an artist want to “evolve” if it means scaring off his fans? But Ryan Adams doesn’t give a rat’s ass about his fans. Well, that’s not true. But...
Stoppard’s Arcadia woos crowd with math
By Tyler Grace / October 12, 2001
The cabby exited The Viaduct only to find it again, this time nestled neath the trestles in the form of a building and capitalized. I paid the man and entered the Viaduct, a small playhouse located a few minutes west via bus of the Belmont El stop. A handcrafted sign greets the visitor at the front door. Inside lies an entryway, a lounge and, beyond it, the stage. Intimate and smoky, more a studio than a formal theater, The Viaduct lent the perfect environment to bring to life Stoppard’s Arcadia. Set on a family estate in Derbyshire, England, Arcadia shuttles...
The government is lying to us about the drugs
By Pete Beatty / October 12, 2001
When I was five, I said “fuck” for the first time. It happens. Everybody says it, sooner or later. The circumstances of my first f-bomb, however, were more graphic and personally demeaning than most. “Fuck,” now such an indispensable part of my verbal retinue, made its jungfrau appearance at a family dinner. It was me, my parents, my sister, my maternal grandparents, and most of my mother’s nuclear family, which is large. Dinner had concluded, and we were discussing the futures market over brandy and embargoed cheeses. (Embellishment. My sister was telling everyone about her Barbie dolls.) I interrupted the...
The government is lying to us about the drugs
By Pete Beatty / October 12, 2001
When I was five, I said “fuck” for the first time. It happens. Everybody says it, sooner or later. The circumstances of my first f-bomb, however, were more graphic and personally demeaning than most. “Fuck,” now such an indispensable part of my verbal retinue, made its jungfrau appearance at a family dinner. It was me, my parents, my sister, my maternal grandparents, and most of my mother’s nuclear family, which is large. Dinner had concluded, and we were discussing the futures market over brandy and embargoed cheeses. (Embellishment. My sister was telling everyone about her Barbie dolls.) I interrupted the...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / October 12, 2001
4 October, —— Feast Day of St. Francis of Assisi My dearest and most revered sister Madeleine, over whom the sun rises and sets and God showers his love, Our flying coaches arrived on la côté this evening, after only a bit of trouble with the gendarmerie. The security has been heightened because of recent troubles, you see — perhaps the pamphleteers in Paris already have brought you word of this. Though it disrupted our entire traveling party, many were willing to accept the discomfort so that they may travel safely. It is hard to believe that even first class...
Hype be damned
By Jon Garrett / October 9, 2001
There have been many toasts and fond remembrances to mark the 10th anniversary of Nevermind’s release. Critics around the globe have rightly celebrated the group’s groundbreaking contributions to rock. But very few have dared to probe the dark side of Nirvana’s legacy. Sure, they made punk commercially viable and gave birth to the alternative radio format, but look at how quickly their revolution crumbled. Alternative radio has decayed into a tuneless, nu metal sludge. Turn on any supposedly “alternative” station today and you’ll hear the same thing: downtuned guitars, bellowing vocals, and self-absorbed lyrics. Nirvana’s impact has been perverted beyond...
Czech Surrealism surfaces at Smart Museum
By Lauren Freeman / October 9, 2001
A woman’s shapely legs photographed in black and white — centered and upside down — are juxtaposed against a fleet of World War I fighter planes, ferociously pursuing their mission: “Untitled Collage.” A woman’s breast, floating in the top right-hand corner is the beguiling moon which shines over an amateurishly photographed (in grainy tones of grey and black) bleak countryside, across which a train juts, emitting streams of black steam into a mysteriously vast, darkly frightening sky. Bisecting this image is a woman’s supine, naked, body hovering midair: “Collage #374.” These images describe just two of the collages in Dreams...
Dear Diary,
By Pete Beatty / October 9, 2001
I don’t really have anything to say but I asked for this half-page so I had better come up with something. Sometimes I have a hard time coming up with stuff to write because I am hesitant to be overtly self-referential. It’s not because I am afraid people will think I am some sort of self-aggrandizing egotistical asshole, because I am pretty sure a lot of people already think of me that way. Maybe I’m worrying over nothing. Who could ever think that I’m self-important? I’m way too funny to be self-important. It’s weird. I’m so funny and smart and...
Godspeed plays Chicago, doesn’t bring moog along
By Chris Heaney / October 9, 2001
Night falls on the North Side. The Division Street bus pulls up to Milwaukee, and I and my retinue descend, construction-paper tickets clutched in hand. We are headed to the Centrum Hall, a tiny pink stucco hole-in-the-wall in Wicker Park that might be described as sketch, were it not for the Jewel across the street. No lights, no signs, no cleaning crew, just an appliances store to its right with a visible backyard filled with washing machines and range-top stoves. The Centrum is easy to miss, but not last Tuesday. For it was there that an avatar of post-rock had...
Strokes play the Metro, drink selves into oblivion
By Chris Seet / October 9, 2001
-
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / October 5, 2001
Several adoring fans have written in over the past few days requesting more information about the Sincere Punk Brigade, which I mentioned in passing in last week’s insightful début column. Mostly, they ask what it is and how they can join. One person wrote in to ask if it was a real org. or not. To him I say, “Listen. I am part of the Sincere Punk Brigade. Do you think I would waste both of our time by lying to you in print?” Luckily, that person was also my roommate, so I threw a half-full glass of Old Forrester...
Albert Brooks makes the leap from comedy to death-obsessed indies
By Nicholas Oberly / October 5, 2001
Is a romantic relationship between a 17-year-old girl and a 49-year-old man fundamentally wrong? Can social relationships be defined by sexual acts? Can anyone who has seen American Beauty remotely blame Kevin Spacey’s character for wanting to be all over Mena Suvari? Vladimir Nabokov’s Lolita pondered and engaged questions of a very similar nature. In Lolita Humbert Humbert enters into a sexual relationship with a 13-year-old girl reminiscent of his lost love, and the readers are left to judge him. My First Mister starts out headed for this level of depth and intensity but then, near the halfway point, the...
A white boy is a terrible thing to waste: Cusack Theory
By Pete Beatty / October 5, 2001
We here at the Maroon have many crazy theories. Some of them are just that: crazy theories. But much like Mel Gibson in Conspiracy Theory, some of our crazy theories are so sane they might just blow your mind. Coming straight from that “so-sane-it-will-blow-your-almond” mold is our insistence that the personality of every single one of our male, heterosexual English-speaking friends, including ourselves, corresponds to a specific role John Cusack played in a romantic comedy, or some combination of those roles. This writer has been described on several occasions as a near-perfect copy of One Crazy Summer’s Hoops McCann, with...
Rival Schools burn bright in the fiery pits of hell
By The Maroon Staff / October 5, 2001
If I really am the bad person that my friends say I am, I guess I’ll wind up in hell. And while I’m burning or pushing a rock up a hillside or both for an eternity, Rival Schools’ United by Fate will be playing very loudly on the devil’s PA system. I say this not because United by Fate is truly evil. I mean, I’m sure its makers had only the best intentions and never meant to cause this reviewer any agony or anguish. The four men who crafted it certainly committed no crime. But to my ears, this is...
Serendipity induces anger, longing for alcohol
By Jeff Miner / October 5, 2001
Have you ever tried to write something with three college guys putting drum sticks up their noses and making a ridiculous amount of noise in the background? It’s pretty much guaranteed to piss you off and make it impossible to review anything fairly impartially. It’s a good thing for you and me that Serendipity doesn’t deserve a fair or impartial review. Still, I did go into the whole experience with a pretty good attitude. When my roommate gave me two tickets to go see the sneak preview at Doc a week or so ago, I thought that I was the...
Jalapeño’s fusion works culinary wonders
By Pete Beatty / October 5, 2001
I done lived here in Hyde Park for three years now, and let me tell you, I hate this fucking place. The stadium’s falling apart, we don’t draw dick, and the weather’s lousy. Another few years of this and I’m gonna have to start feeding Cha Cha real dog food. I am getting what some have described as an “education.” The school is good if a little expensive. This is true. I enjoy the company of my mates. I do not lack for companionship. However, I hate Hyde Park. The point: I will not stay in this godforsaken half-acre, filled...
Pierce runs out of cash for drugs, records album
By Jon Garrett / October 2, 2001
Jason Pierce is a sad sack. But if anyone has a right to be, it’s surely him. In the four years since we last heard from Mr. Pierce, he’s dismissed all the other members of his renowned band, Spiritualized, and lost his longtime girlfriend, Kate Radley, to that media-whoring dolt Richard Ashcroft, all the while battling a crippling addiction to a seemingly endless array of narcotics. For a time, he seemed destined to fall into the same abyss that claimed Kevin Shields so many years ago. Thankfully, Jason Pierce is no Kevin Shields. Whereas Shields’s depression essentially killed his desire...
Denison Witmer and the music of driving
By Chris Seet / October 2, 2001
There’s place where we stand, a halfway point between pondering the past and pushing off into the present. Denison Witmer, a soft-spoken and largely unknown songwriter from Philadelphia, knows this spot — he charts its territory and walks its line with grace and an uncommon sense of balance. Driving through Chicago, Witmer plays an early acoustic set at Schuba’s on the week of his album’s release. More a bar than a venue at this hour, the audience is talkative, people drift in and out with glasses of beer, and there’s a crazy beeping sound coming from some piece of equipment....
Icelanders melt brains
By Nasia Anam / October 2, 2001
Last Thursday as I stepped into the Vic, I was expecting a good concert, nay, a great concert. I was not, however, expecting all of my internal organs to spill out of my heels and to feel my brain implode. Sigur Rós is not a mere band, but the pure manifestation of beauty. The quartet originates from Iceland, breeding ground of sonic pioneers, aural gods, a veritable Mount Olympus of modern music. Sigur Rós recorded their debut, Von, in 1997, and their second album in 2000, a record that makes you feel like you never need to hear any other...
Doc Spotlight
By The Maroon Staff / October 2, 2001
At 7:00 p.m. on Thursdays this quarter, Doc Films embarks on a filmic history of Universal Studios in the time of its founder, Carl Laemmle, Sr., and especially under the influence of his son, Carl Laemmle, Jr. This period includes the introduction of sound to film to Hollywood, and the recruitment of some of Europe’s most talented filmmakers to the American screen. The resulting films are some of the most memorable from this or any period, and include the introduction of such iconographic images as Dracula, Frankenstein and the Mummy into American society. Carl Laemmle, Sr., was born in 1867...
What I read on my summer vacation
By Pete Beatty / October 2, 2001
I really hate books. One, you always have to buy a whole bunch of them for class. Two, they’re expensive as shit. $100 for one book? No book is worth $100 unless it has a $100 bill tucked into it as a bookmark. My Spanish book cost $100. The entire Spanish language, if you could trap it in a box like in Ghostbusters, is not worth $100. Not that I don’t think books are good, in that they contain information and sometimes other things. I made a promise to myself that I wasn’t going to talk about pornography, and I’m...
Major labels get desperate
By Jon Garrett / September 28, 2001
Someone asked me recently if I was at all surprised that major labels are still willing to bankroll the likes of the L.A. Guns and Mötley Crüe. “I mean, doesn’t it seem crazy that these bands that are so obviously over the hill are still getting contracts while plenty of young and talented groups aren’t given the time of day?” he said. No, actually, it doesn’t shock me in the slightest. In fact, it makes good business sense to me. Not only are these has-beens proven multi-platinum sellers, but occasionally one group breaks out of the commercial mortuary and taps...
What Kind of Total Disregard for Humanity Do You Have?
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / September 28, 2001
There was, rest assured, going to be a competition to name this column. Ballots were printed, nominations heard, and candidates selected. I even made sure that the different choices were listed on the ballot in a truly — yes, truly — random order. In fact, probably more thought went into developing the randomization algorithm than went into actually making up the names. Form, meet function, etc. Who needs a catchy name when you know that Serious Math was involved in picking it? This is, after all, the Information Age, the age when even wine no longer comes in obscured Mylar...
Dear Diary
By Pete Beatty / September 28, 2001
Dear Diary, It’s been a long, hot, bearded summer for this STUNNINGLY CHISELED man. While I staved off the entreaties of dementia with my daily lifting schedule, the summer was no less long or hot or bearded even when I was BLASTING MY LATS and MAXING THE NEGATIVE and GOOD REP and SKULLCRUSHING WITH LIKE, EIGHTY. Shit, I fucking hate this place. OK, OK, the place isn’t so bad. It’s the people. City living got this country boy hornswaggled and possibly also hogwashed ten ways to Christmas, and I can’t really be blamed for what I say or do anymore....
Strange little reviews
By Chris Seet / September 28, 2001
The celluloid undercurrents of modernist America surface yet again on It’s a Wonderful Life, leading one to wonder if Sparklehorse, as their album title suggests, have finally watched one too many Frank Capra films. But it’s all good. Sparklehorse, in their third proper album, once again spread the legacy of Americana thick and smooth over an impeccable pop sensibility and what will prove to be a strong and under-appreciated set of songs. The latest in a string of part astral, part American-gothic flavored pop albums, rarely is an album of this kind so immediately accessible and just plain likeable. Cutting...
Time for Movies!
By Pete Beatty / September 19, 2001
This just in: College students like to procrastinate. Once the weather turns here in the Chicagoland area, that means you’ll have to take your procrastinating indoors. As fate would have it, most movie theaters are indoors. So, why would you want to spend your time studying or sleeping when you could spend your time getting loaded and going to the pictures at one of Chicago’s many fabulous moviedromes? In that spirit, here’s a look at some of fall and winter’s big-money extravaganzas, direct from Tinseltown to your sorry ass. (Warning: does not contain actual film criticism.) How High (Universal) Gee,...
A soundtrack for all your favorite silent films
By Chris Seet / September 19, 2001
Nobody gets excited by soundtracks anymore. Being mostly compilations of flavor-of-the-month pop and overplayed radio singles, it’s no surprise. Hardly ever does a good, genuinely creative score arouse any attention; the type that tells a story, plunges you into a weird mood or strange, bygone era; and reeks of old, sentimental bastards trying to stir up the dust in your attic a bit, for old time’s sake. It’s strange, therefore, that the self-appointed curators of what’s left of the genre should be a pop band with a dodgy history and penchant for psychedelic road music. Mercury Rev found their calling...
Moldy Peaches develop worst name ever
By Jon Garrett / September 19, 2001
Chances are if you can’t find the humor in rhyming “chicken” with “dick in,” you’re not going to enjoy this absurdly crass debut from the NYC duo known as The Moldy Peaches. The Peaches specialize in an unusual brand of lo-fi clatter mixed with purposely off-putting and frankly disgusting lyrics. Imagine the demented ramblings of Gene and Dean Ween set to the Royal Trux and you’ll be close to the sound on their self-titled LP. Genius it’s not, but The Moldy Peaches just might be the perfect diversion for those of us who still appreciate a good bathroom joke, but...
From Grrrl to Lady
By Caroline Ly / September 19, 2001
Still stuck in the mindset of the early ’90s — the backlash against feminism’s excessive victimization of women — I found myself rolling my eyes at the idea of Ladyfest Midwest Chicago. Later, when some of my friends decided to pack in a van and trek over from the East Coast especially for it, my curiosity was piqued. I decided to go. More importantly, I ended up realizing that my idea of feminism was antiquated. A far cry from my earlier impression, this four day festival touted “an expansive feminism that is not dogmatic, exclusionary, or rigid.” What does that...
I WANT TO SLEEP WITH ELIZA DUSHKU
By The Maroon Staff / September 19, 2001
Because I am a man. Because she was born in Boston. Because she wears cheerleader outfits. Because she is of Romanian lineage, I think. Because she is a brunette. Because she is a sassy brunette. Because she is in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Because she gets third billing. Because of that face she makes in the screen test for Bring It On. That face. Not because of Buffy, but because of everything else. That face, the face she makes towards the end of the wardrobe test for Bring it On — that face — a thousand ships is...
Somebody here really likes Stereolab
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / September 19, 2001
Maybe starting a discussion of Stereolab is not best done by asking the question, “Is there a better band than Stereolab?” Similarly, there’s little to be gained by starting the discussion with “Is Jim O’Rourke ruining Stereolab?” Yet both were, at least momentarily, possible points of departure in investigating the ‘Lab’s most recent release, Sound-Dust. After a bit of meandering which produced the hyperdense Cobra And Phases Group Play Voltage In The Milky Night and The First of the Microbe Hunters, Stereolab’s returned to its bread and butter, the ethereal pop from a different, alternate universe where, say, George Bush...
It’s been real, dudes
By The Editors and Ghost Rider / May 25, 2001
This is the last issue of the Maroon for this school year! Can you guys believe it? I can’t! It’s fucking nuts! Seriously, fucking insane! I mean, it doesn’t make sense! It’s crazy. So crazy. It is without a doubt the craziest thing I have ever heard. So motherfucking crazy, words don’t even begin to describe how insane this craziness is. Except these words, that we’re writing, to explain the craziness! We’ve been through a lot. If we could play the Boyz II Men song “The End of the Road,” for everyone, we would, but we can’t, so fuck off....
Phlegm mars otherwise brilliant recital
By Chris Wroblewski / May 25, 2001
Chicago is fortunate to be a performance stop for the world’s great piano recitalists. This concert season has seen recitals by Mikhail Pletnev, Arcadi Volodos, Alicia de Larrocha, and Alfred Brendel, among others. The list reads like a who’s-who of outstanding talent and brilliance. Of the most recent concerts, the American-born Richard Goode, provides a wonderful example of all that is right with the piano recital scene in Chicago, and, unfortunately, all that is wrong with the concert-going public. The country’s foremost interpreter of Bach, Beethoven, and Mozart was overwhelmed by an audience that refused to get out of the...
Radiohead b-sides still better than most bands’ a-sides
By Sarah Sung / May 25, 2001
Radiohead has undergone a multitude of changes since their debut release Pablo Honey (1993). Frontman Thom Yorke has lost the hideous coiffures, met Michael Stipe of R.E.M., turned into a whiny, left-wing, pretentious fuck, something I like to call “Michael Stipe Syndrome.” (On an irrelevant note, his wife had their first child recently, which I’m only including in this review as food for thought — is he really allowed to attempt reproduction? Thom Yorke gets laid?) A brief rundown of other superficial changes in the band: Jonny looks a little less like Jackie Onassis, Phil lost his hair and also...
Indie pedant
By Sam Eccleston / May 25, 2001
The first “Indie Pedant” appeared in the Maroon on January 7, 2000 and I wrote it more or less out of guilt. This, the last one, will appear on May 25, 2001, and I am writing it for no other reason than that I am a windbag and — some would say — a pedant, and I can’t leave here without getting the last 1,000 words I can in edgewise. As any faithful reader of this space knows, I am not one to stint on sharing my opinions. As such, I thought I would get all meta on that ass...
Shrek succeeds, even without Cartman’s vitriolic rants
By Gautam Chopra / May 25, 2001
Lately I’ve found myself using the word “hip” quite often in talking about movies. Especially movies about the ye olde days, that aren’t usually hip. A Knight’s Tale was hip, and Shrek is hip. Perhaps the wielding of this word is due to my preconceived ideas of medieval period pieces as stale and tedious. However, these notions have begun to be reprogrammed in the past two weeks. Shrek not only excites a dead age, it applies new practices to the animated feature. The film is entirely computer animated, but it makes most of its strides with the script. One of...
No Whoopi here
By Irene Hodes / May 25, 2001
Comic Roman antics take over University Theatre for the next two weeks with the production of A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum by Stephen Sondheim, Larry Gelbart, and Burt Shevelove. Directed by Blackfriars veteran Jessica Post, this musical comedy tells the story of the love between a Roman youth, Hero, and a virginal courtesan, Philia. The show itself is highly enjoyable with the hilarity of mistaken identities and slave-master reversal, in the manner of a French farce, complete with dance, chases, and acrobatics. The play is narrated by the slave Pseudolus, played by Garrett Ard, who...
R.E.M. apparently stands for Rest Easy, Mike”
By Anand Dash / May 25, 2001
Old reruns of Jeopardy! are the best thing since, well, old reruns of The Simpsons. Remember that really smart blind dude who won five straight games? He’s still winning if you turn on the tube at the right time. That guy with the funny Canadian accent? Also still circulating around the idiot box. Recently, I caught a rerun with a category entitled R.E.M. Sure enough, the questions in said category had nothing to do with rapid eye movement but with the famous band from Athens, Georgia. Normally, this event would be filed away in the memory banks under “that one...
Who moved my Jack?
By Micah Yang / May 25, 2001
Food is good. The only thing separating good from food is a “g” and time. I feel that I’m qualified to determine whether or not food is good because I’ve eaten food, for 18 years no less. And even if I hadn’t, I could make a reasonable guess, since I’m intelligent, or so my high school counselor has told me. Recently, I have begun drinking coffee, mostly in the mornings, but sometimes at night. At night, I like to have a cigarette with my coffee. Also in the daytime, I often have a cigarette with my coffee. I try to...
Cuomo gives up the lesbians and embraces wiener
By Pete Beatty / May 25, 2001
British accents make everything better. I’m not talking about stupid Americans pretending to be British. Fuck Mike Myers. Fake Scottish accent equals funny. Fake British accents equals vast quantities of open ass. But authentic British accents make everything better and by everything I mean sex. They make sex better. They are erotic as all get-out. If you were gonna have sex with somebody, and you had to choose from like, a line-up of accents, you’re gonna choose British every time. French? No. French people actually are all assholes. I thought that was just a silly caricature of the French that...
Mos Def: Mushroom pants, Metallica, and the future
By Pete Beatty / May 22, 2001
On Saturday night after Mos Def’s Summer Breeze set, Voices emissaries Pete and Gabe sat down with for an all-too-brief interview with the artist. Voices was understandably intimidated at the prospect of sitting down for a chat with the mind that brought you Black Star and Black on Both Sides, and we were a little nervous as we made our way into the bowels of Mandel Hall. Onstage, Mr. Def is a dynamo of blackness, equal parts rapping and singing, and in general just a snowballing brick of charisma. Mos in person is a soft-spoken, surprisingly slight, and imminently approachable...
Miles Davis + Tortoise + drugs = Sector 9
By Sarah Yatzeck / May 22, 2001
Coming to Hutchinson Commons this Thursday evening, the music of Sound Tribe Sector 9 unites the farthest reaches of outer space with the rhythm of the earth. Sector 9 evokes another galaxy with weird synth effects, spacey bleeps and whooshes, and trancey drumming, but the mellow, gently grooving core of each song is as solid and organic as the earth’s crust. On their latest album, Offered Schematics Suggesting Peace, this incredible band blends natural and futuristic elements to make a joyful noise unlike anything you’ve ever heard. Although Sector 9’s influences are hard to place, their song forms recall Miles...
Carbon Copy: 24-7 diners
By Paul Francke / May 22, 2001
Houston’s 16 Bennigan’s locations offer a trademarked Irish experience you can only have on three spots in Chicago. There’s an Applebee’s somewhere in this town, too, surely the same ‘neighborhood restaurant’ as its eight clones in New York City and five in Nashville. Granted, New York has eight Applebee’s because it has eight of everything, including the great stuff; and Houston and Nashville’s Tex-Mex and soul food restaurants more than redress the problem of franchise trash. (Chicago, though, is less about the highs and lows and more about the ill middle ground: the diner.) Remember, we’re not talking about Five...
B.R.M.C. bring intelligent rock back to the majors
By Jon Garrett / May 22, 2001
It’s 4:00 p.m. on May 16, and somewhere between New York City and Philadelphia, the three members of Black Rebel Motorcycle Club are just waking up. Of course, they have a right to their nocturnal sleeping habits, having been on the road for a solid month in support of their self-titled debut album. But still, there’s something odd about waking someone up at 4:00 p.m. on a weekday. But if it bothers Robert Turner (vocals / guitar / bass), he certainly isn’t showing it on this particular afternoon. In fact, he sounds downright eager to discuss everything — the album,...
A Knight’s Tale fails to rock anyone
By Jennifer Chung / May 18, 2001
Fairy tales always make the best bedtime stories — the good knight rides up gallantly on his white horse, defeats the evil knight in black, wins the beautiful princess, and saves the kingdom. Writer/director Brian Helgeland’s new film, A Knight’s Tale, is the perfect bedtime story: it’ll rock you right to sleep. Nothing but hype and punchy one-liners, A Knight’s Tale is fluffier than cotton candy. Heath Ledger is William Thatcher, son of a peasant worker in medieval London, who dreams, against all odds, of changing his fate. In a rags to riches story that could have been written by...
IDM set for resurgeance with MoM and Air
By Moacir de Sa Pereira / May 18, 2001
In vain did I ask the editor for the privilege of printing an epigraph to begin this piece. Something, perhaps, involving exaggeration and Mark Twain would be appropriate. Luckily, only four or five minutes of work on the web granted me exactly the quote I needed to express myself. In this case, I guess, from www.twainquotes.com, the following presents itself: “If a spectacle is going to be particularly imposing I prefer to see it through somebody else’s eyes, because that man will always exaggerate. Then I can exaggerate his exaggeration, and my account of the thing will be the most...
Go to Summer Breeze of contend with my wrath
By Pete Beatty / May 18, 2001
Summer Breeze is a-coming. Good. Great. See if I care. Actually, I do care. At least I care more about this than I do about most other things, which isn’t saying much. Anyway, I am talking now so please listen carefully. I think MAB and the perfectly decent Summer Breeze concert lineup they put together are getting a lot of shit they don’t particularly deserve. I’ve heard a lot of people talking about how much they’ve been looking forward to seeing highly-touted up-and-comers Run DMC tear shit live in Hutch Courtyard, right here at our very own University of Chicago....
Me llamo middle-aged, sweater-clad indie rock
By Jon Garrett / May 18, 2001
Due to circumstances beyond my control (okay, it was a lack of automotive transportation, if you must know), I arrived at the very tail end of Eleventh Dream Day’s set, effectively missing both opening acts. But it turned out to be a mixed blessing; mixed because although I was genuinely upset at having missed one of Eleventh Dream Day’s few live appearances, I was relieved at the end of Yo La Tengo’s whopping, near two-hour set that my legs didn’t have to endure a minute longer. For those unfamiliar with Yo La Tengo (I only own I Can Hear The...
Artist dazzle with artistry
By Irene Hodes / May 18, 2001
University Theatre presents Tom Stoppard’s Artist Descending a Staircase this week, directed by Anna Brenner. Originally written as a radio play, Artist follows the lives of Martello, Donner, and Beauchamp, three avant-garde artists; and a woman, Sophie, the love interest and sometime muse of all three. One of the most interesting aspects of the play is its physical structure: it begins in 1972, when the artists are old men, and works backwards, each scene going further and further into the past. Artist begins with Martello and Beauchamp listening to a recording of someone falling down the stairs. It becomes clear...
No more stories to load.